<ICLE-ALEV-0001.6>

	I think that it is possible to argue that the computer has made us both use and not use our brain more for a number of reasons.
	Firstly you could see that the introduction of computers has made us think more because of all the programmes used on them. It can take quite sometime learning how to use them. Besides, as soon as one programme or computer is brought out it becomes out of date because people are <?immiediately?> thinking about how to improve it. After all it was man that invented the computer. Computers can't replace the human brain (not yet anyway!).
	It is possible to say that using computers do not stop us using our brains as much, they are just quick, efficient time savers. After all somebody must be glad of using a word processing programme rather than having to write or us an old fashioned type writer. What if you were to make a mistake writing an important letter? You would have to start again unlike pressing one key on a computer.
	People claim that computer games don't need a brain to be played. On the contrary some games are so difficult people are consulting together all over the world on how to do them. (And how are they communicating? By computer, which is a lot quicker efficient way rather than post or the like. I don't know about using your brain but I'd say that by working with all these time-saving, quick computers is definitely using your head.) But then there are computer games that don't need any brainpower whatsoever, just keeping your finger on a button. Now this is where computers have stopped us using our brains.
	Despite computers saving time, they do everything for you at the touch of a button, solve the most difficult sums, check for spelling errors on essays, letters and other documents and much more. This is why it could be said we don't use our brains as much.
	From simple things such as homework to running a nuclear power station computers do everything for you. In the control room Heyshams Nuclear Power Station it takes one man to run it. Millions of pounds worth of computers do the rest. I cannot see much brain power needed for that.
	Computers can communiate with each other, fly planes, build cars, they may even be running the country next. They have made a good number of people jobless. No brains are needed to watch daytime television everyday are there?
	So for all these reasons it is possible to argue that yes computers have made the brain redundant and no they haven't.

<ICLE-ALEV-0002.6>

	In many ways, I believe that this question is akin to asking, "How far has the human foot been made redundant by the invention of the wheel?" There are many jobs that a computer performs far better than humans, mainly those involving repititions of mathematical <?calculat?> just as in many cases, travel by wheel based vehicles is faster than travel by foot. Yet there are many situations where humans can travel through on foot that wheeled vehicles cannot cope, as any wheel-chair bound person would testify. The computer is a tool to be used to aid human brains and bodies, but does not (yet) come close to making them redundant.
	Recently, a fuss was made in the newspapers over falling ability at mental arithmetic in schoolchildren. This was attributed to the rising use of calculators in schools, and newspaper articles claimed that children were losing their ability to think for themselves, due to overuse of calculators. Surely, though, it is poor teaching on the part of primary school teachers, and the fault of our `progressive' teaching policy, that allows children to pass on memorising times tables in favour of simply having calculators at the ready at all times?
	The reason that computers have not made the human brain redundant is that they are, in the most literal sense of the word, idiotic. They have no ability to think, or be creative, or be spontaneous. They simply perform millions of calculations, very quickly, following instructions laid out by a human. It is impossible for a computer to produce a list of truly random numbers, for example, something an eight-year old child can do with ease. The closest that can happen is for a programmer to invent an appropriately complicated set of instructions (an algorithm) that will deliver an approximation of a set of random numbers. Of course, once this is done, the computer can quickly calculate millions of (pseudo) random numbers far more quickly than a human.
	Research in artificial intelligence, the attempt to produce a "thinking" computer, has grown massively in the last decade, yet we are little closer to producing any true artificial life for it. The definition of artificial life that is now most widely used was set out in the 1950's. It involves a set up of three computers, linked so that what one person types on his screen appears also on the other two. All three computers are in separate rooms. At one computer is a human, the scientist testing his AI program (or, more likely, an independent tester). At another computer is another human, on the third is running the AI program. A three way conversation is started, with the tester `chatting' to the other two, asking questions and receiving answers. His aim is to distinguish between the computer and the human participants. If he cannot make any distinction, then that program can be said to be `alive'. Our current technology could not fool any tester for more than a few seconds, but as computers grow more powerful, and new techniques which build computers based on the `neural net' systems which our brains use become more feasible, it is possible then that life might be created according to this definition. Only when this occurs is there any possibility that computers may make our brains redundant. Even so, I feel that it will be a very long time before computers will be able to respond to sensory visual and audio input as our <?cars?> and respond to these inputs. Computers may become more and more advanced, but I do not believe that these tools will ever make human brains redundant.

<ICLE-ALEV-0003.6>

	The human brain is the most powerful computer known to man yet it is small and light. It is the control centre of a body, can instruct it to move freely around its surroundings, it is able to interact with other humans and objects. The brain can make decisions, it can communicate. The only function of the brain which computers can rival is the memory. Some of the humans brains functions have been taken over by computer. like accountancy. with the invention of electronic calculators. In fact the whole subject of mathematics has become quicker with the invention of the electronic calculator. but the subject has not changed electronics have only solved a few mathematical puzzles. Most of the theories used today were Hypothesised and proved before the invention of the calculator.
	Computers however have almost unimaginable accuracy. Most high precision engineering projects undertaken today use computers and laser technology to make parts accurate to thousandths of a millimeter.
	The computer is very widley used in the modern day world, but in almost every case it is only an aid to the brain. The human still has to tell the computer what to do. The human is still in charge. The human brain is in no way made redundant by the invention of the computer and I think that it will be a long time before the technology is discovered to make a electronic machine which will compete with the brain to achieve one of its functions never mind all of which the human brain is capable of doing.

<ICLE-ALEV-0004.6>

The continual development of computer technology has created a great deal of controversy in modern times. There are nowadays widespread uses for computers in all parts of society. One area which has drawn particular criticism is the computer games industry. Since the early 1980's, when computers such as the Spectrum 48K and the Commodore 64 were introduced into the homes of millions of people, controversy has followed about their effect on children. There is a widespread belief among parents that computer games hinder a child's ability to learn. The development of more sophisticated and technologically advanced computers, such as the Amiga and PC, has served to deepen the "problem". The growing realism of the games appeal strongly to children. However, parents feel that children should be broadening their minds by reading books and that the computer games industry is encouraging children not to learn. Computers have also been blamed for a fall in education standards among primary school children; a belief accentuated by the results of surveys which state that the vast mayority of primary school children are unable to do simple arithmetic in their minds and rely on another computer, the calculator, to help them.
	Another moral dilemma that computers have created is their role in the workplace. There are many people who fear that computers will eventually replace man in the workplace. The role of computers is already significant in employment areas, such as accountancy, which require a specialist ability to be able to calculate and manipulate numbers. These computers have replaced humans and such changes have sparked fears that the level of unemployment could vastly increase as a result. As the computers are: more efficient than humans, do not require payment for their work, are less temperamental than humans and will never have a day off because it is ill, it seems mankind is faced with a great problem.
	Another claim made that suggest the human brain could become useless is that computers promote anti-social behaviour. The creation of the World Wide Web and the Internet have created concern that the human race will become unsociable. The Internet allows you to correspond with people all over the world and it also contains many other functions to, supposedly, make life easier for us. The Internet also has another fundamental problem according to many. The belief exists that the computer age and its developments, such as the Internet, will remove the challenges from life. The human brain is constantly in need of being challenged to maintain itself; but with the introduction of the Internet, one could conduct their life without ever needing to leave the house which many believe would menace society.
	However, at the moment, the existence of computers is very much dependent on the existence of humans. No matter how much artificial intelligence a computer may be able to show, it still has to rely on the human brain to programme it and to put it into operation. Although, there are plans to create computers which can programme themselves, (which I, personally, feel is a very dangerous idea) the human brain still very much controls the computer and still the ability to end the existence of computers at any given moment; thankfully, a power computers do not have over humans.

<ICLE-ALEV-0005.6>

The computer has been one of the most influential inventions of all time. Computers now dominate the majority of government business, science and communication, as well as many other areas of human life. In many ways, it has taken the place of the human brain in performing calculations and thought processes.
	The most obvious example of this is the calculator, an instrument used by mathmeticians and scientists for making numerical calculations. This has made it no longer necessary for the human to perform calculations and run through equations, and so need not understand the principles behind them any longer. This, unfortunately, means that the genius scientist is being replaced by the powerful computer and its operator, who needs only to know which buttons to press. This may seem an extreme view, as there is still much in the world of maths and science which a computer cannot calculate, but this may not be the case centuries into the future.
	Computers have been used as a means of keeping records, they have all but superseded handwritten text, (in a few decades people may well be faced with a computer screen and keyboard in their General Studies exam), they are used to transfer money across the globe, even to create artwork and to entertain. Computer generated pictures, including `fractal' pictures, drawn from equations, seem to be more popular than hand printed images from an artist's imagination, and computer games seem to provide more entertainment than any game or activity that takes place in the real, physical world. Virtual reality allows people to have `3-D' entertainment created for them by a computer.
	Whether or not the computer is taking over from the human brain, it has certainly made the human body all but redundant. People, businesses or corporations can be contacted at any point around the globe by fax machines, e-mail and the internet, and some people prefer these forms of communication to actually meeting face to face. Money can be transferred instantly without even needing to move the actual money - the physical coinage doesn't matter, it is the computer records that state how much each bank has ownership of.
	However, the idea that the human brain is no longer useful is not entirely true(!) Computers cannot deal with human beings, have no capacity for coping with anything outside their expected situations, and cannot adapt to new situations using judgement. Human beings often act without logic or reason, and only other human beings can cope and deal with that.
	Also, computers can break down, and then a human is needed to take control - such as an airline pilot, and there are still certain tasks only a human being can perform, and they are often among the simplest.

<ICLE-ALEV-0006.6>

	The invention of the computer has facillated the role of the human brain in many areas; spelling, mathematics, physics, geography. Such developments have both made the human brain more dependent upon the computer as its increased usage has made various parts of the brain lazy. On the other hand the discoveries made by computers have stimulated the human brain to further fields of thought. However, which has a greater effect on us and why depends much on our circumstances.
	In the world today children are taught about things which have only come to light as a result of the technological revolution, namely the computer. For example the nature of the sun's surface has been made available by computer technology. This provides simple additional information not requiring the brain to think much, unless one is able to think around it such as in companion to other planet's surfaces. Therefore, the human brain whilst dependent upon its data from the computer is able to establish more lines of thought and expand its capacity. However it is also important that children do not become overreliant upon computers from an early age as they will not have the chance to develop their own brain in doing subjects, such as mathematics. However as more and more children become acquainted with computers their brain becomes lazier in carrying out even the simplest of tasks. Therefore, the child must be taught to be independent before being introduced to computers by which it may expand its knowledge and understanding.
	Indeed computers are simply the result of what humans know and thus have instructed the computer to do. They are man-made and thus have been established by our own brain power, and so have been programmed with a similar line of thought. This argument could point to computers as the replacement of human brains yet their development is similar to ours, as we programme them according to the knowledge which we acquire. Therefore, the human brain should be able to understand a computer's programme and line of thought as being similar to its own. This point of view displays the computer as a substitute for a human brain which, once skilled in its use, is a major problem in its use by many people.
	However to those in complex fields such as physics the computer has been able to stimulate the human brain on to further research. Indeed the interpretation of results on the computer requires the human brain to work quite hard and the option <?of?> an appropriate response requires a human brain that is not redundant.
	However, although the human brain may not be redundant it could become programmed like a machine influenced by the computer's programming. Therefore, computers can have an adverse effect on the human brain's greatest facility, its imagination. Whilst the user becomes submerged in the computer and its programming he may well lose his force of imagination. However in response to this one might say that the computer is an invention of the human brain's imagination at a very hight level, and indeed its development. However I believe its use, confined to its programme, loses the element of imagination.
	Therefore, I conclude that although the invention and development of the human computer has kept the brain on, full-time, it use has offloaded it, to a certain extent, into redundancy.

<ICLE-ALEV-0007.6>

	Many people argue nowadays that, with the advent of computer technology, our mental arithmetic is poor and we are becoming a nation of couch potatos. It is true in a way, the development of portable calculating machines (calculators) has meant that we no longer need to be able to work out sums in our heads, but at what cost? In many shops, the cashiers appear to be dumbfounded by the simplest of sums without the aid of their tills.
		In many areas, the skill of human judgement has been replaced by faster, more accurate, computers. Many people have had their job positions taken over by computers. Filing cabinets are becoming a thing of the past with computer databases. But even such menial tasks as filing are good for us. They encourage organisational skills and tidiness.
	When people talk about artificial intelligence (AI), you hear many funny tales from people who are convinced that the computers are coming alive and will eventually rule us. These are just the rantings of people who have nothing to do with computers and who do not realise that behind every computer is a programmer. Even `artificial intelligence' needs to be programmed. Human brains still work out how to build the computers, how to program them and, more importantly, how to control them.
	As for making the human brain redundant computers can help to improve learning skills, they can teach, test and improve our linguistic skills. Reflexes are improved (and this has been scientifically proven) by playing computer games, the very same things that parents say turn their children into `zombies'. We can expand our imagination and convert our ideas into computer simulated models, enabling us to design buildings and road networks.
	The computer revolution has not made our brains redundant, it has opened up areas of them we never knew existed!

<ICLE-ALEV-0008.6>

	It is now the age of the computer. Almost everyone owns a computer or has access to one. Computers nowadays are a far cry from the one's in the past which filled whole rooms. They are able to generate amazingly accurate graphical representations and perform extremely difficult mathematical equations in just seconds.
	Computers have become a huge part of our lives in both the areas of work and education. But are they such a good thing?
	When calculators came along a drop in ability of students for mental arithmetic was obvious and now they are used for the simplest calculations. The computer could do the same thing. Computers encourage laziness in the general public, why work out something yourself when the computer can do it for you. This is very time saving and efficient but it is causing people to forget basic ideas. For instance, spelling is no longer as important as it was you can simply use a "spellcheck" to correct your English, which is absurd.
	For the youth of today computers offer links around the world and millions of facts and figures. This could be argued to be educational. However, this is killing the imagination of children and they spend hours sat at a keyboard tapping away in the doom and gloom of the house. They should be out enjoying themselves and gaining experiences for themselves instead of reading about them on a flat screen.
	It is said that you can meet people through computers and have `relationships'. I find this preposterous and people are losing the ability to communicate and form relationships.
	Computers can offer escape from the hum-drum routine of daily life by means of games but they are mind-numbing and un-inventive.
	There is however a more dangerous threat from computers, it is that they can do the work for man. This could lead to high unemployment. Those people who work with computers for long periods of time every day face problems. The repetion of tapping keys all day and staring at the screen can be harmful and not only that it is highly boring to do the same thing over and over again.
	Computers may be the future but what part will man have in this future. There will be no need for people to go to school as they could be taught at home, people would hardly ever talk and the only career available would be for computer programmers.
	I agree that computers are helpful but people should not live through their computers and be so reliant on them. They should read books and live more in order to regain their lost imagination and sense of adventure. Also, in schools I feel that work should be done mainly by hand and calculators and computers should only be used minimally in mathematics in order to stop the production of computer addicts and again have normal people.

<ICLE-ALEV-0009.6>

	A vision of the future. of many people if the world run by the cybory, Hollywood has used it extensivly. However, will the world ever come to this?
	Since the invention of the first calacutator technology has had a ever increasing role not only in our lives, but in our learning. Many people fear that the children of today, math sudents especially are turning into `button pushers', and question the morrality of this.. some school have even banded the use of calculators.
	Since its conception, the computors brief has been the make the work of man easyer, no to do if for him. There is one fundamental element that computers have not yet aquired to do the job of a human brain, they are stil uncreatative and have no learning capacity and they cannot, as yet, have understanding and selfawarness.
	The back bone to a computor is its program, it can not break this program<?>, it is for this reason that many people such as Roger Penrose, (Oxford Physic Profressor) thinks that computors can never take the place of man. A computor can never break progaming it will always follow it to pression. That is why it may never aquire learning power in the true sense or creativity or awareness.
	So if we assume that the computor will only ever really be machanical in there operation and `thinking' then they will only ever do the donkey work for example calculators in schools; And even if they do do the metal arithmatic for the children Thus the children losing the ability to do it for themselves, it this morrally wronge, afterall it is a progression, they will never need that skill again.
	However with the capabilities of computer growing exponentally then it maybe possible for computors to, one day, replace part of the brain, thus making the brain compleatly redundant.

<ICLE-ALEV-0010.6>

	In analysing how far the invention of the computer has made the human brain redundant, we must remember that changes in the demand for computers has certainly not been universal. While "Western" developed countries have begun popularising the computer, developing countries have very much been left in the dark as their education levels and culture do not allow for mass computer demand.
	The invention of the computer meant that industry could benefit from the further technological inventions that followed. Robotic production of cars, for example, allowed many firms to increase their efficiency and productivity. On the other hand, the advent of computer usage in the home could be argued to increase educational levels. As supply in computers through changing technology arrived, so demand was to gradually increase in the long term, both for the individual and for the firm. This long term change in demand can be charted to see if it has lead to a drastic fall in the usage of the human brain.
	As I have said, changing technology has allowed factories to use robots for production. It has also created the internet, a global forum linking every part of the world up so that information can be passed on more easily. Similarly, the computer has also brought society video games, in the form of companies such as Sega and Nintendo. We must ask if such video games are detrimental to the youth of the world and also its population, or whether they relieve stress and form part of modern life. They do utilise the brain, testing reaction times and lateral thinking skill, but is this escapism a good or a bad thing? There is certainly a change in attitudes in society.
	Secondly, educational levels in the developed world have also changed drastically wih the technological revolution of the computer. On the one hand, clearly this has lead to a decrease in primary and secondary labour sectors. That is, in agriculture and more importantly in manufacturing. Robots replace people and computers mean that only one supervisor - or head of technology - is needed on a factory production line.
	Yet amongst the job losses through this, in the UK students in sixth form wishing to go on to university are nearing the highest level they've ever been. Computerised administration systems aid this, and while at university computers are used heavily in all subjects as an educational aid. CD-ROMS are used for media students to scan thematic types of stories from all newspapers; computer science students study the forefront of computer technology in programming to further British industry productivity and creativity. It seems that education - the use of the human brain to learn facts, ideas and images as well as concepts - has if anything increased. At the same time, workers have suffered huge job losses as their contribution to the production process is no longer required. Also, moral questions are asked of the youth while crime rises and video game usage appears to be at its highest.
	It would be unintelligent to blame these factors at the development of computers. These are in fact external factors besides the invention of the computer which have heavily contributed to the factors I have mentioned. For instance, surely the large rises in population and level of economic uncertainty - especially in the UK but also developed countries in general - must have compelled many students to increase their educational level by going to university. The human brain has been affected by creating a highly job-motivated society which recognise utilisation, not redundancy of the human brain is the way to get a job.
	Economic uncertainty in developed countries - ie western countries - has been severely hampered by deindustrialisation. While firms in the manufacturing sector previously colluded to keep prices high, this means there was not enough investment in new technology. Combined with developing countries having cheaper costs, such as much cheaper land and labour, this means that industry has moved away to countries such as Korea, China and Indonesia, where workers are paid pittence wages of around 16 pence a day.
	Changing attitudes in the media have meant that through television, many have accepted the invention of the computer.

