Boxing - B01

Two men, one ring, only one can leave. Dramatic it may be but basically that is the main principal of boxing. Although throughout the years rules have been made to dilute the sports sadistic side, should boxing be banned?
Every time a boxer gets punched in the head his brain moves vigorously inside his skull. This causes the boxer to lose many brain cells per boxing fight and if this occurs frequently then the boxer can end his career with brain damage. In my eyes and probably the eyes of others this is reason enough for the banning of boxing.
The sport to say the least is actually a blood sport, the simple reason being that the idea of the sport is to 'knock your opposition out', although this is argued by Chris Eubank he believes he is a sportsman and the idea of boxing is an art form, he says that he does not specifically go into a boxing ring to knock his opponent out but to win on points differences and to give Chris Eubank his just respect most of his fights have been won on points. 
But there is one exception - the original example, the first reference why boxing should be banned, the tragic accident where Michael Watson was put into a coma by Chris Eubank (the man who doesn't specifically go into fights to knock his opposition out).
This example only proves too well what a dangerous so called 'sport' boxing is.
The boxing federation is trying to do as much as it can to make the 'spot' safer having rungside doctors, banning bare hand fights but the top and bottom of the argument is that any blow to the head causes considerable damage.



Boxing - B02

I am not a boxing fanatic. I wouldn't even describe myself as an enthusiast. I have never done any boxing in my entire life but I would still be prepared to defend the sport of boxing against anyone wishing to ban it.
First of all, there are already few enough liberties in this country when compared with other nations of similar political and economic conditions such as France and the United States. The day that the Government starts to ban popular sports like boxing is the day I apply for American citizenship. The only argument of those who are for the banning of the sport is the fact that in the past few years there have been three incidents in Britain which have left one boxer dead and two others with brain damage. These men were professionals, they were not stupid. All boxers know the risks and are surrounded by people who are trained to look after them. Boxing is a high risk, short term career the men who do it are aware of this, that is why they are paid so highly. I recently read a report that stated that football players who play full back or centre forward in non-league football are more prone to long term head injuries than boxers because they often go without treatment and without taking precautions when they get concussed. This is cleer evidence that without the large sums of money envolved boxing would be far more dangerous because the medical care would be poorer. So, those that say the money pushes these boxers to their fates may be wrong in thinking so because it is the money which protects them in a way.
How could we ever ban a sport as full of skill and traditional values (such as good sportsmanship) as boxing is beyond me. Perhaps the fact that it is a sport which almost entirely excludes women counts against it. I can imagine how much feminists would dislike its machoism. But this is no reason to stop this ancient sport. I watched the Benn-McLellan fight in 1994 and despite the shocking consequences for McLellan it was one of the most memorable sporting occasions I have ever seen; The same can be said for Ali and Foreman's "Rumble in the Jungle" and I wonder if anyone who watched Frank Bruno win his world title fight this year will ever forget it. When you watch boxers like Nassem Hamed at work it seems ridiculous to say that boxing isn't a proper sport and these incredibly talented men shouldn't be alowed to do what they do best and entertain.
Who would ban boxing if they had felt the excitement and passion which it evokes in those people who give it a chance. Banning boxing goes against the will of the many. Improving the availability of medical help is good enough for me, I think boxing should go on.




Boxing - B03

Over the past two or three years there has been a continual debate over whether or not boxing should be banned. This discussion arose after lots of boxers started to get serious injuries and brain damages as a result of boxing.
Boxing today, and has always, been a popular spectator sport and nowadays it is a big money business. Fighters, at the top, get paid millions of pounds to fight. The fighters themselves, the managers, the sponsors, the organisers, the betting shops and most spectators do not want the sport to be banned. In opposition are the people who do not like any blood sports, doctor etc, recipients of serious injuries ie, boxers themselves and their relations, etc.
The people who want the sport to be banned, say this because it is not right for people to fight, and there is a too high risk of serious injury and brain damage caused by the severe pounding that the head takes during a boxing match. They say that boxing should be banned because the only way to stop these accidents happening is to stop boxing, and the only way to stop people boxing is to ban boxing and make it illegal. 
The illegalisation of boxing I believe however could only lead to the introduction of underground boxing matches if out of sight of the law. And this could be a bad thing because although there would many people there working, laying bets etc. there would be no supervision and professional referring so boxing accidents may occur and they may result worst than they do now, because there would be no immediate medical attention due to the illegal nature of the matches.
This may of course not happen and the banning of boxing will go down badly, but with that will be the end of it.
There semm to be many more reasons why boxing should be kept going rather than banned.
One of the major arguments is that boxing is the most natural sport in the world, and so why should it be banned just because of the risk of injury. There is just as much chance of getting brain damage by being in a car crash etc. as there is in a boxing match, and car crashes occur much more often than boxing matches. So when viewed like this, boxing appears quite safe.
Another reason not to ban boxing is because it is very popular, and millions of people worldwide get entertained by watching boxing, so why should it banned it will cause displeasure to so many people.
Boxing, because it is a big money business, should not be banned because it would affect not only the fighters themselves but also the managers, the proffesional referees and judges, security guards, organisers and betting offices.
Gambling is a major part of the boxing game, and huge amounts of money would be lost by betting offices if the sport was banned.
The people who organise boxing matches would also be affected by losing business and maybe becoming unemployed if the sport was banned.
The players themselves would be left unemployed also, because many of them being professional boxers have no other jobs to fall back on. Only the multimillionaire boxer who win every match, and get lots of money from sponsors etc. could survive unemployed.
Many boxers have participated in the sport all their lives and it would be a great loss to them if the sport was banned. 
Boxing is also an Olympic event, and always has been, it would seem a shame to take it out of the Olympic line up, just for the sake of a minute risk of sustaining serious brain damage, and a few queasy women/men who dislike fighting.






Boxing - B04

There is always much speculation over the dangers of such a brutal sport as boxing. This is emphasised and exaggerated when a competitor in the sport tragically dies.
A recent death in the ring has inevitably led to a public uproar on the safety of the sport, and the controvesy over whether the sport should be banned or not is yet again the forefront of discussion. 
Let us consider how a professional boxer would feel. He is clearly aware of the dangers and brutalism of the sport, which is possibly why he enjoys it so much. I have yet to hear any boxer regret his choice of career. The excitement of being in the ring, the joy at knocking an opponent onto the canvass, and all the money that is there to be made are overwhelming factors which keep boxers fighting.
The money that is there for the taking for the very best of the best is ridiculous, and with some top boxers earning sums of money such as £20 million (or in Mike Tysons comeback case, $60 million!) it is hardly surprising how important the sport can be to some. 
Let us consider 'Sky' viewes, recently beginning a subscription to view Tysons "next Live Lights". This member of the public does not want the sport to be banned either.
Now let us consider the friends or family of a boxer, who has been permanently injured (or been killed due to a fight). These individuals and others learning about the tragic incident in the media protest against the sport. The family, who were originally against the idea of their son finishing college early to take up the sport would be leading the protests againt boxing.
How pleased, proud and patriotic the British public felt when Frank Bruno achieved his ultimate goal and became the Heavyweight champion of the world, yet how sorry many were to see him return to boxing after his head injuries earlier in his career. This hypocritical view is shoved by so many that whether boxing should be banned or not will remain a controversial issue for the forseeable future.




Boxing - B05

Boxing is one of the most popular sports of this era, it is almost one of the most deadly. During a fight a boxer may receive several hundred punches to the head, and each time that he gets punched he looses more and more brain cells.
The brain is encased in the skull, but not only in the skull is the brain but also a liquid 'shock-absorber' to protect the rain. Even though there is the protective liquid the brain still gets bounced about against the skull, damaging it more and more every time. So, a boxer who has been boxing for a number of years, ten for example, and retires is very likely to have brain damage and it could be very severe or hardly noticable but the damage is still there. Getting away from the long term effects to the short term effects, yes brain cells are still being killed but when a boxer receives a very strong punch direct to the face not only would it damage his nose, eyes, teeth and general facial features but it could also cause him to enter a coma, haemorage or die.
Another aspect that many people are quite opposed to is the absolutely huge salaries that top rank boxers receive. The question that people have is: is that person really worth several million pounds? Just for a fight against another top ranking boxer that may only last a couple of rounds. Another adaptation of cost is the cost of having so many medical units and doctors at the fight when they could be somewhere else, more important, where people aren't getting paid to fight.
The major influence keeping boxing going is all the people around the world who enjoy watching the sport, there is an incredibly big demand for it. Boxing is one of the most popular sports, and it will be difficult to ban it. Not only does it satisfy the viewers but a lot of companies also sponsor boxing which brings a lot of advertisement and capital for them. 







Boxing - B-06

The debate of boxing, wether it should be continued or not is a very heated one, just as the sport itself is very intense. There are many valid arguments on either side, however, in the end the choice must rest upon the shoulders of the individual.
A reason for the debate being so heated is the variation in fortunes of separate fighters. Two extremes can be identified; millionaire, celebrity status in the case of Naseem Hamed for example, or death in the ring as is sometimes the tragic case. It is too easy to allow emotion to control the argument and the various arguments must each bee given light. Foremost in many peoples minds is the issue of death and the potential for it to occur within boxing. Is it inhumane to support a sport in which death can so tragically happen? What about motor racing, mountaineering, rugby, horseriding? The list of sports in which death all to often occurs is numerous, so what makes boxing different? It is often argued that it is the intent of the boxers, to render each other unconcious by damaging the brain, that makes boxing immoral. However it is not the intention that is important but the results. The truth is that more people died from playing rugby, racing cars and bikes and mountaineering than did in boxing. It is not for outsiders to comment on the morality of the sport; that is not a sound basis for banning it. The only fact that should stand is the numbers of deaths and on that score boxing is not at the top, is not the most dangerous and should not be the first candidate for banishment.
Another strong argument for the case against boxing is that participants are more likely to receive long term damage to the brain, "punch drunk". Participants in other dangerous sports will normally retire unscathed. Boxers however will be lucky to escape some sort of ill effects, however minor. Again however, in a modern "force" thinking society where people must be allowed to choose their own future, the choice lies with the individual. It would be very hard for a novice to enter the sport without being made aware of the risk he is taking. Boxers are aware of the risk, they accept it and continue with their sport. This tells that they either enjoy the sport or except the risk in order to recieve the potential rewards. Also, great steps have been taken to ensure boxing is being made safer all the time. Doctors are present at each fight, an ambulance must be present, the distance of each fight from a hospital with a nuerological facility must not be greater than a certain distance and there is room for a further reduction in the number of rounds.
What about those fighters who never quite enter the big money fights, those who remain on small payments? It could be argued, considering that the stratospherical wages earned by top heavywieghts +/- millions are matched by the small earnings of small time boxers, that the sport only loons after its successes and exploits the rest, the unsuccessful majority. It is true that wage differences appear injistifiably large, but the heartless answer is that we live in a market economy, demand must equal supply and the punters demand to see the bigger, and brighter stars of boxing. Secondly, if boxing were to be banned there is every likelyhood that it would be taken underground, were not only would the standerds and regulation of safety be disregarded and bare knuckle boxing prosper but wages would also diminish and then exploitation would truly be seen.
The safety regulations of boxing, which are made increasingly thorough year after year, justify the sport because if a boxer does become seriously injured and requires help, not only will the very best care be at hand but if the boxer does not recover, some peace of mind can be found in the fact that the boxer was aware of the dangers posed to himself, was aware of the help at hand and that the best was done to save his life or retain conciousness. This may seem to be a cold hearted viewpoint but it is important to look clinically at the facts and not be carried away with emotion when discussing this emotive subject. The peace of mind gained explains, along with the excitement of the sport, the growing number of fans of boxing and the large crowds at big money title fights. The popularity alone adds strength to the argument for the continuation of boxing.
So what is the future of boxing? There must as in most things, be some room for comprimise. Suggestions as for the improvement of the sport range from the sensible: reduce the number of rounds, increasing  time between rounds, changing the type gloves used and regulating the time span between each fight, to the ludicrous such as only allowing body punches, a measure that would also send the original sport under ground. Compimise can and must be made if boxings future is to be clear but at the moment their is still sufficient argument for continuing the noble art.




Boxing - B07

It is said that boxing should be banned, described as a barbaric sport, it has been known to lead to deaths and brain damage of fighters. The constant pounding of the head during a match doesn't necessarily do take it's toll immediately, but as a boxer's career continues, the chances of him having some kind of serious brain damage are fairly high. Is it right that we watch with excitement as someone is repeatedly battered about the head until they are no longer able to stand, could this not have an effect on our general attitude towards violence, children brought up to 'worship' idols such as Frank Bruno, as he pummuls someone into a hazy blur. Should boxing be banned. My answer to all of these questions is no. Maybe boxing is brutal, but to fight is part of human nature and I feel there is no point in trying to stop people fighting in controlled circumstances. Who has the right to tell someone whether they are able to take a chance and face the risk of death. If boxing were banned where would we draw the line, skiing? mountaineering? diving? darts? I feel it is a human right to be allowed to face the risk of death, and a matter of personel opinion whether you watch it or no, boxing is usually on late at night, children only watch it if their parents allow them to.
I think boxing should be encourage, in run down inner cities areas such as Moss Side, boxing is popular, it gives young lads a focus in life, it gives them a target. Many of the best boxers came from such areas, in my opinion they are better of boxing than stealing cars, taking drugs and shooting each other.
Banning boxing is simply unnecessary, if it were banned then it would simply continue 'underground'. This would mean that boxing would become a much more dangerous sport as expert medical attention and proper match control wouldn't be ensured, the use of pads may also be ignored.
The only suitable action to be taken would be to increase safety regulations, ie. head guards and better gloves in all fights, or to shorten the length of fights to cut down some of the constant pounding.









Boxing - B08

One of the main arguments put forward for the abolishment of boxing is the fact that the continual pressure exerted on a boxer whilst being hit can result in death, or terminal injury.
Each time a punch hits a boxer on the head, the brain gets jerked from one side of the head to the other, and finally stops as it hits the inner wall of the temple. One hit alone is unlikely to injure or kill a boxer, but continual hitting can severely damage the brain. The brain is surrounded by protective fluid. This fluid is gradually worn down, and eventually leaves the brain tissue with very little protection, making it suseptable to serious damage.
Boxers, and boxing fans alike, argue that an average fight may only last six 3 minute rounds, and during this they may only get hit 100 times in this 18 minute period. A proffesional boxer usually only has about 3 fights a year, which, he argues, means he only receives 300 hits to the head. However, this is not true. A boxer spends many hours sparring in the ring in preparation for each of these fights. He may receive thousands of hits to the head during sparring, which could seriously damage his health. 
Also, there is a moral issue at stake. Many people believe that boxing is a blood-thirsty sport, and it should not be allowed in modern society. The sole intention of a boxer is to hit his opponent so hard that he can't continue to fight on. Boxers may train for up to 6 hours a day building up their strength to enable them to use their arms as powerful weapons against other fighters.
However, despite the highly publicised deaths of some fighters, for example James Murray who died recently in a boxing match, boxing has a much lower mortality rate than some other sports, e.g. horse riding or motor car racing. Great precautions are taken to make boxing as safe a sport as possible, with several paramedics at ringside if they are needed.
Also, no-one is forcing boxers to fight. They have the decision as to whether or not they should participate in boxing match. Surely the choice should be theirs to make? Boxing is seen by many as a chance to suceed in life or a light at the end of the tunnel; Boxing keeps many young black Americans off the streets, which are full of gangs and drug dealers. It helps them understand the concept of discipline, which can be very useful in later life.
A strong argument against the banning of boxing is that it almost certainly result in illegal boxing fights talking place. Boxing is a sport participated in by thousands of people in the U.K. alone. If it were banned, there would inevitably be boxers who still participated not for the money, but for the love of the sport. Also, there is so much money involved in boxing today, millions of pounds in some cases, that it would be impossible to stop illegal betting taking place or underground fights. These fights would be much more dangerous. There would be few, if any, doctors supervising the contests, and if a boxer was seriously injured he would have much less chance of surviving.
Boxing is see by many as a ruthless, blood-thirsty sport which should not take place in modern society. However, as television rating prove, boxing is a very popular spectator sport. Boxing can cause serious damage to an individual, but boxers are well aware of the risks they are taking when stepping into the ring. Even if boxing was to be banned, it would take place underground, which would make it even more dangerous. There is a strong case for banning boxing, but it is not a practical option. Instead, the government should introduce new, stricter safety regulations for not only proffessional contests, but for all boxing matches that take place.







Boxing - B09

Boxing has existed in its popular form from the last century, and has taken large steps of development since its early days of backstreet bare knuckle fights. This century it's popularity has increased greatly, due on part to the personalities of such greats as Mohumed Ali, George Foreman and Henry Cooper.
However there is a tragic side to the sport, upon which the anti-boxing lobbyers base their opinions. The death of Scottish welterarght Jim Murray in the ring as recent as this October have renewed calls for the immediate banning of boxing. These tragic events, following on closely from the regretable like states that Gerald McClellan and Michael Watson have been left in, does little to help boxing's image and gives the viewer a sobering touch when contrasted with the antics of the likes of "Prince" Naseem Husein and Chris Eubank.
This apparent barbarianism is not helped by the behaviour of certain boxers. The claims of Oliver McCall, prior to his World Championship clash with Frank Bruno, that he would extract revenge for Gerald McClellan upon Bruno, have given the anti-boxing league fresh impetus in their drive for the banning of the sport. When this behaviour is added to that of Chris Eubank and Nigel Benn before their clashes, and one begins to agree.
Whilst such behaviour cannot be condoned, it must be remembered that boxers do realise the risk of their chosen profession, just as other sportsmen do. When Jim Murray died, fresh calls were made for the abolition of boxing. However, when Ayrton Senna crashed and died at Imola in 1994, an equally tragic event, few calls were made to ban motorracing. On the contrary people were discussing new rules for the bodywork of the car, rather than why there was only one set of tyres on one of the most notorious corners in motor racing. Both sportsmen realised the risks that the were taking when setting out in their chosen profession, and sadly, both paid the ultimate price.
Another question that must be raised when discussing the parts of banning boxing is, what would happen to it. Almost certainly it would go underground. This would do little to eliminate the problem due to the fact that there would be less provision for safety than if it were legal. By this occuring it would almost certainly mean that more deaths and maimings would occur, therefore failing to eradicate the problem at all. It would also mean that the power would be in the hands of a few, meaning that the boxers would take more risks to get their hand on the money that so desire.
Legal boxing provides an excellent oppurtunity for the working class to make it rich. Like football, it is one of the Great Working class escapes. People such as Frank Bruno, Chris Eubank and Nigel Benn would still be living in south and east London as opposed to the life of luxury that they now live in if it were not for the success that they have found through boxing. The same is true of promoters Frank Warren and Barry Hearn, both would be far from where they are now if it was not for boxing.
By taking away boxing you would also be taking away one of the public's favorite spectacles. The atmosphere in pubs up and down the country on the night that Frank Bruno finally won the heavyweight crown was nigh on electric. For the public a big fight is escape from the usual boring hum drum existence, giving them a chance to have a little flutter on who the fancy and an enjoyable night. By taking away boxing, on e is also removing the public's enjoyment. Not only that but jobs for thousands of people would go, along with the collapse of many betting chains up and down the country.
Tragedies will always happen in any sport not only in boxing. Paul Bennett, a young striker at York City died during a match a few years ago when he swallowed his tounge. Max Brito the Ivory Coast wing was paralysed from the waist down when playing at last summer's Rugby union world cup, however few calls were made to end either sport. Moreover, people were searching for new ways to protect players and avoid such events. Deaths and tragedies will always happen in boxing, but instead of sweeping the problems under the carpet, moves should be made to make such events as infrequent as possible.





Boxing - B10

Over the years boxing has developed into a widely enjoyed and extremely lucrative sport. However, along with this development has come opposition from both the medical field and a proportion of the general public, who now would like to see the sport banned. 
Firstly, I would like to take the medical viewpoint. In the past not so much was know about damage caused to the brain by blows, but nowadays with advances in technology, this is more understood. The doctors are now able to see the damaging effects of repeated blows to the head, this has been supported recently by the deaths and serious mental injury suffered by well known boxers. Naturally, in their capacity of doctors they want to prevent injuries such as these occuring in the future and they feel the only way to be sure of this is to stop the sport altogether. As the sport has become more publicised, people hear more of injuries and fatalaties from around the world whereas before they only knew of a small number. Perhaps it is the fact that more is heard that there has been increased protestations from the public. I am sure that it is only a small percentage who feel strongly about the sport and would like to see it disappear. The families of those injured or killed maybe want to prevent anyone else from going through the grief and torture that they have had to endure because of the sport. In any case these people who to some may seem like killjoys only have the interests of the participants and their families at heart.
Naturally, there is the argument for keeping boxing. As I said before, it has developed into an extremely lucrative sport with millions of pounds being offered for the elite to fight. The fight promoters and fighter managers will all be receiving large sums of money. It is these people who are directly involved with the sport who would defend it greatly. Boxing has a huge entertainment value and millions tune in to see the big names battle it out. Some of the most renound and popular sportsmen in this country are boxers and they are well respected and loved.
Boxing, nowadays has a certain aura about it and the atmosphere is almost electric when there is a title fight. The number of people who enjoy the sport far outweigh those who dislike it.
The casualties mentioned earlier are not a common event, and now with doctors being close at hand all through the fight the risk has somewhat diminished. This has, therefore, made the fight safer and reduced the need for worry. Naturally in a contact sport such as this there will be injuries but that is true in every sport. I'm sure no-one would thing of banning football if a player broke his leg.
Boxing is a classic lower-class sport and sometimes it provides people with a lifestyle they could only dream about. For the youths of the inner cities boxing offers an alternative to crime or drugs and it keeps them off the streets and out of danger. A classic example is that of Frank Bruno, the much loved British world champion, he did not have a great future in prospect but when he took to boxing he found something he could do well. He is now a millionaire and alongside other top names he is a hero for youngsters. These tales of fortune and World Championships provide hope and give them something to dream about and aim for.
To conclude, I would like to weigh up both sides of the argument. Boxing is a dangerous sport, granted, but I feel that I have to stress that it is the choice of the individual to take part in the event. They know the risks before entering the sport. In my opinion, the 'accidents' are few and far between and the expert medical advice and quick aid to any injuries reduces the element of risks sufficiently to keep the sport safe. Boxing has a worldwide audience and is worth millions of pounds, it also promotes physical fitness and good healthy living.
I therefore conclude that, with everything taken into account boxing should not be banned.








Boxing - B11

Boxing is a sport that has two sides too it, the excitement of watching a great fighter such as Mohamed Ali, Chris Eubank and very recently 'Prince' Naseem Hamed. When boxing is seen through these fighers agility and skill are thrown to the fore and the ugly side of boxing is forgotten.
It cannot be denied by any boxer that boxing is dangerous and that each time he walks into the ring he is risking his life? Many opponents to boxing argue that this risk in itself means that boxing is not a sport but is malicious and these boxers ought not be allowed to make that decision especially when they have families.
during the last year/two years there have been incidents which the sport of boxing wants to forget and try and get boxing it's name of 'entertainment' back. The arguament came to the fore again that boxing ought to be banned when Chris Eubank fought Michael Watson. Michael Watson ended up in a wheelchair, paralysed and with brain damage. These two men were both professional fighters, the fact that Michael Watson has ended up how he is, is as much Michael Watson's fault for putting himself there as it is Chris Eubank's for doing it to him. However Michael Watson has never been able to forgive Chris Eubank, and many critics believe, that as sport is for enjoyment, no sporting event should end up with opponents not speaking to each other because it turns it into a war, which means a higher likelihood of someone being seriously hurt.
Another incident very similar to this was between Gerald McClelland and Nigel Benn, and Gerald McClelland end up in a wheelchair. However months after this, McClelland friend Oliver McCall threatened to take revenge from McClelland on Frank Bruno. Many people say that this 'idol' talk sets a bad example for children when growing up. They don't only see, a 'superstar' in Oliver McCall threatening to paralyse Bruno but revenge is also threatened. 
These are tragic events that no-one wants seen repeated and many opposers to boxing believe that it should not be allowed to happen again by banning the sport.
Only I the recent case of James Murray who tragically died was the issue brought up again. Doctors and specialists have said that the head is not capable of taking such severe blows for a long time, and nowadays there is so much medical help at the ring, and yet boxers are still dying and suffering severe injuries. Many ask why? Should it be allowed is the family of a boxer has to wake up to next morning to realise the nightmare boxing can cause?
The money available in boxing nowadays is fenomenal. Chris Eubank earn a £10 million tour with Sky sports network, but the question must be asked, If £10 million is on offer for 1 fight or 10 fights, what will the boxers stop at to secure his family and hisself's future.
Many parents will argue that their son's hero is a boxer. They may try to copy the boxer, but is this acceptable? Do we want to be presenting boxing as good if it is going to cause disruptable behaviour?
Setting an example is a very important issue which comes into the case for banning boxing. Around a year ago two heavyweight boxers ended up fighting at a press conference, many critics and in fact most adults in this case believe this unacceptable and setting a bad example of fighting to solve problems.
Also boxing critics believe that some of the bad attitudes and arrogance seen in boxing nowadays is rubbing off on some of our teenagers. 'Prince' Naseem is a culprit of this, he has an arrogant attitude which many people don't like but because he is good a what he does and is an entertainer younger less wise people try to copy him.





Boxing - B12

In the present day sporting world, discussions have been happening concerning the humanity of one particular sport: Boxing. The reasons these discussions have occurred is because of the serious injuries which have occurred in fights such as the tragic Benn-McLellan, and Eubank-Watson, matches. In both of these clashes the result of the match has been a brain injury to one of the boxers.
With these injuries in mind, officials and doctors have claimed that boxing is of serious risk to health, making it both inhumane and dangerous. I actually disagree with the doctors in their opinions. In the sporting world, there will always be injuries. It is an unfortunate truth that every year people will break their spine from falling from a horse, or a motor car racer will tragically die as in the case of Ayrton Senna. Even in sports such as running there has been serious leg and knee injuries which have ruined the careers of many fine athletes. When it comes to boxing, of course, two men punching each other in the head carries a risk of head injury, but so does a man climbing into a formula one racing car and travelling at speeds in excess of 180 miles per hour. Sport carries the enjoyment because of such risks, the world would be a very boring place without risk.
To come on to the next point, sport is an optional pastime. Noone forces boxers to step into the ring, the injuries that could occur are made painfully obvious to them by the unfortunate Michael Watson, who still attends boxing matches, but now at ringside, in a wheelchair. The famous British boxer Frank Bruno spoke about the injuries involved in the sport of boxing and he rightly said that, of course there injuries in boxing but it is a very low percentage who are injured. If boxing is banned, then why for instance are the TT races in the Isle of Man every year not banned, because they kill riders every year.
If boxing was banned it would be ruining the lives of many talented boxers who have one love in life, and that is boxing. If boxing was made illegal, then the sport would still take place, but it would not be under the control of doctors or referees and there would be no proper association to represent rules and regulations. It would probably become even more dangerous.
Of course there are advantages banning the sport but they are very small compared to the disadvantages. The advantage is that no-one will suffer any more brain injuries as a result of organised legal boxing matches. Unfortunately statistics predict that all those boxers who are not boxing, a few of them will probably be killed in a car accident or killed in a * attack in New York. When it comes down to statistics, far more people are killed from car accidents than are from boxing accidents, so what should we do , ban cars  as well?








Boxing - B13

Boxing is a common, well known and well loved sport amongst most countries in the world however it is also punishing, dangerous and disliked to the extent that many people want it banned, possibly with good reason.
Boxing is a dangerous sport, there are relatively common deaths, tragic injuries and even disease. All professional boxers are at risk from being killed in his next fight. If not killed then more likely paralysed. There have been a number of cases in the last ten years of the top few boxers having tragic losses throughout their ranks. This is just from the elite few, and theres more from those below them.
More deaths would occur through boxing if it were banned. The sport would go underground, there would be no safety measures like gloves, a doctor, paramedics or early stopping of the fight if someone looked unable to continue. With this going on the people taking part will be dangerous, and on the streets. Dangerous dogs who were trained to kill and maim in similar underound dog fights have already proved deadly to innocent people, the new boxers could be even more at risk.
Once boxing is banned and no-one grows up knowing it as acceptable there will be no interest in boxing and hopefully less all round interest in violence making towns and cities much safer places to live in, there will be less fighting outside pubs and clubs and less violent attacks with little or no reason.
change the rules of boxing slightly would much improve the safety risks of the sport and not detract form the entertainment. There are all sorts of proposals, lighter and more cushioning gloves could be worn, ban punches to the head, headguards worn or make fights shorter, as most of the serious injuries occur in the latter rounds, these would all show off the boxers skill and tallent and still be entertaining to watch.
Even if a boxer is a success and manages not to be seriously hurt he still faces serious consequences in later life diseases that attack the brains have been known to set in as a direct result of boxing, even Muhamed Ali, who was infamous(?) both for his boxing and his quick-witted intelligence now has Alzheimer disease and can no longer do many everyday acts.
Many other sports are more dangerous than boxing, motor sports and even mountaineering has risks that are real. Boxers chose to box, just as racing drivers drive.





Boxing - B14

Today, boxing has become a very popular sport, with T.V. channels competeing for coverage of certain events and fighters earning a lot of money, this is a big business.
Apart from athletics, boxing seems to be the only popular international sport from which Britain can still hold to head high. We have superb fighters with excellent character such as Lennox Lewis, Nigel Benn, Nasheem Hamed and our beloved Frank Bruno.
Despite being enjoyable to watch, boxing is very dangerous. Blows to the head can cause the brain to rattle about the skull which may cause a brain clot or tumor.
Last year, the fight between Chris Eubank and Micheal Watson led to calls for boxing to be banned when Micheal Watson slipped into a coma and was in a critical condition for some months. Many youths in low income areas see boxing as 'a way out', a chance to make it to the top and earn a lot of money on the way. There are, however, people who regard boxing as barbaric, brutal and primitive. These people argue that there is no need for boxing and that it only promotes violence.
During the fight, yes, of course it is violent, but this is controlled violence and fighters have a mutual respect for each other. All precautions are taken to ensure a safe fight. During fights doctors a kept close to the ring and have the authority to call it off prematurely if required. Ambulances are also kept on stand by at big events. Although it may sound cruel, I do not beleive that any fighter has entered a proffessional boxing career without knowing the risks.
Because there are so many budding young boxers, to ban boxing would be insane, since it would almost certainly go underground. Underground fights are far more dangerous since less protective gear is used and there usually isn't a doctor present.
Taking this into account and considering that boxing is about hurting the opponent, it can be said that boxing is a relatively safe sport. Although far less popular, there are other sports which are far more brutal and dangerous, such as 'Thai Boxing', where competitors are encourage to use their knees and elbows.
The argument continues, but for the sake of safety in the long term I do not think boxing will be banned. Which is good news for the majority of the British public.





Boxing - B15

The case for banning boxing as a sport has been debated constantly for several years. Only recently though has it been debated so strongly. Over the past two years there has been many events which has marred boxing as a 'brutal sport'. In the Eubank-Watson fight, just over two years ago, Watson was left at the end of a great fight unconscious and fighting for his life. He had suffered a major blot clot in his brain and after serious surgery and over eight months I hospital, he was left unable to walk without support and with a serious speaking disorder. One young man's life smashed by just a twelve round fight. Nearly one year ago another man, McClellan, was also left in a critical condition after his fight with Eubank. He is still in hospital  to this day, recovering. The most recent incident which has fuelled the debate has been the death of the young Scotsman - James Murray. After suffering a brain haemorage during his World Championship defence, he was left in a coma with serious brain damage. He died later the next day. These three events are only a fraction of the incidents occuring in a boxing ring which have caused controversy over the sport.
A boxer's risks do not stop when he retires. Sure, he hasn't been injured badly during his fights, but every time he has been hit during his several years in the sport, a slight bit of damage has been done to his brain. This damage has built up every fight and the boxer is ore likely, even though he doesn't perticipitate in the sport any more, to have a brain haemorrage or a stroke. They are also very likely to suffer, in their old age, from a serious and sometimes fatal disease called Parkinson's disease. It affects the nervous system very badly and can lead, in some cases, to paralysation. Is this kind of a risk really worth a life in the sport of boxing?
There are, however, many reasons why the sport of boxing should not be banned. A large percentage of teenage children or young adults will have heard of the events involving Watson, McClellan and Murray. If they didn't read it then they'll, no doubt, have heard it on the news or from friends. Yet, even though they know about these attrocities, they will still go down regularly to their local gym and train to hopefully be a proffesional boxer. When the men of this world enter into the sport, they will already know about the large risks involved in such a career yet they will actively prove it for reasons that only they shall know. At the end of the day, if someone wants to have a career in boxing then theoretically they should have the right to pursue that career.
One of the main reasons why I think that the sport will not get banned is that there is such a large amount of money at stake. The boxing industry creates millions of pounds every year. This, I believe, is why so many young men enter the sport I the hope that they, in years to come, will be fighting for a World Title having just earned several million dolars for the fight. Without the industry, there would be thousands of people in England alone who would loose their job. From the boxers themselves to promoters to gym owners through to the judges.
I also think the, before we decide whether to ban the sport or not, we should think about the consequences of banning the sport. In my opinion if boxing were to be banned then, not only would many people loose their job but I think that boxing would go "back street". This would mean that there would be secret fights in such places as people's gym or even warehouses. These fights would not be as safe as those fought today. We could, also, quite easily find that if we did ban boxing then the so called secret fights could be without boxing gloves. It is just over one-hundred years ago that the last bare knuckle fight was fought. These kind of fights, "street fights", are much more dangerous than those fought on a daily basis today.
Summing up the case I can say that although it is an extremely dangerous, and in some ways sadistic, sport if we were to ban it in this country then the effects it would have would be extremely tragic.




     

