Fox hunting  - FH01

Fox hunting is a 'bloodsport' and in my opinion all 'bloodsports' should be banned. Examples of 'bloodsports' are stag hunting, bullfighting, pheasant shooting and even fishing. Fox hunting is immoral and unnecessary. 
The uniform of a fox hunter usually consists of a scarlet jacket, white 'jogpets', white shirt, black tie and polished black riding boots. From a distance this would seem to be the uniform of some kind of a gentleman. The fox hunt is a lengthy and extreemly cruel process. The riders all gather together in what is called 'the meet'. This can last anywhere from 20 minutes up to 90 minutes and basically this is where all the riders admire each other's uniforms and wait for the dogs to pick up a scent.
When the dogs finally find a scent the hunt begins. The dogs take the lead, once again there can be a number of anywhere between 20 and 100 dogs. The riders follow on. If we can possibly imagine what this poor fox is going through as it 'runs for its life' literally. If the fox happens to stray from the woodlands onto other farmers' property, across roads and fields - the dogs follow. This can cause immense damage to the countryside in the form of knocked-down walls, gates, trampled hedges and huge 'hoof' marks throughout the area.
When the dogs finally catch up with the fox, it is literally ripped to pieces, limb from limb. The riders rarely actually get to see the fox, once it has been caught.
However, on the other side of the argument the farmers say foxes are a pest and have to be controlled some way or another. The foxes kill sheep, hens and scare animals and so the farmers feel they have every right to kill these pests. The farmers also say the 'hunt' is very exciting and is a major part of their lives. The 'thrill of the chase' has no substitutes.
Now that we have seen both sides to this argument solutions should be discussed. For example, foxes could be controlled in some other way, an example could be a shotgun. A bullet to the head is a much more  moral way to kill this animal than to literally rip it to shreads. The farmers will then complain that they have nothing to do on a Sunday. This is where 'drag hunting' becomes involved. This is very similar to a fox hunt but without the negative aspects. This hunt comprises of a scent being laid the day before and a piece of meat being hidden some distance away; The dogs will pick up the scent and chase it until they find the meat. So this method meets all the requirements the farmers insist on, for example, the thrill of the chase, something to do on a Sunday and a use for all these dogs. 
In conclusion, personally I am against the present method of controlling foxes and do not see why these perfectly comparable alternatives can not be used instead.




Fox hunting - FH02

There have been many demonstrations by activists when fox hunting is taking place and although I do not agree with some of the animal activists methods I am in this case of the strong opinion that fox hunting should be banned in the United Kingdom. My reasons for this are as follows.
Fox hunting in my eyes is a brutal sport carried out by the higher classes in society. It is regarded by many people as being traditional and indeed the practice of fox hunting has been carried out for many years. However I regard fox hunting as a pointless and futile sport. In many ways it is looked upon as a blood sport. Once, the sport may have be necessary to cull the numbers of foxes but now foxes have become so rare that they are rarely seen in the wild.
Foxes are simply hunted for fun and for trohpy's. They are not hunted out of necessity for food. Most farmers regard foxes as pests and occasionaly foxes do cause problems on farms by killing chickens or other farm birds. However this is their nature. They must eat to survive and to feed their young and it is only rarely that foxes sieze the opportunity to steal chickens from farms. Due to this many farmers give permission for fox hunting to take place on their land. Although foxes may harm farm animals this is only an instinct for survival. There seems to be no point in my eyes in killing a timid and rare animal. Their furs were widely sought after for the making of fur coats but now public opinion has put this to an end. 
I regard fox hunting as a pointless sport. There is a lot of pomp and tradition involved and dressing up. As well as the pointlessness of fox hunting it is too brutal on the now endangered wild fox population. The foxes are not really given a chance. Once one is spotted by the hunting party a pack of hounds is sent after it. All the fox can do is flee in desparation. It does not really stand a chance against the overwhelming odds of about twenty blood thirsty hounds. Occasionaly foxes to manage to escape or hide but in most cases when a fox is spotted once the dogs reach it, it will be torn to pieces. It is an awful way to die and there is no reason for it accept for that of sport and tradition.
As far as I am concerned fox hunting has become a pointless and outdated sport, yet it still has many followers and in parts of the country hunts do continue. Huntsmen will say that they are ridding the countryside of a verminous creature which is looked upon as a savage animal, yet I regard them as beautiful animals that are a part of the countryside fauna. I dont think that they should be treated in such a way and hope that the government will see the light and pass a law banning this futile blood sport once and for all.





Fox hunting - FH03

An issue which is becoming increasingly debated is whether or not fox hunting should be banned. In today's society it is an outdated and barbaric "sport" which, in my opinion, should be banned. 
In this country animal rights have been debated in parliment and many measures have been implemented to safeguard animals welfare. Recently the British government have brought in legislation with respect to how animals, which are going to be slaughtered, should be transported. These measures include the time the animals spend on the road, how much room they have etc. etc. However it is still perfectly legal for a group of people to chase a fox with a pack of dogs and watch them chase the fox until it is exhausted and then get torn apart by the dogs. This, apparantly, is a sport.
The Government has made it illegal for dogs to attack badgers whilst it is still legal for dogs to attack foxes. Surely this is unfair and hypocritical of the government. It is also illegal for two dogs to attack each other for the enjoyment of the spectators. At least if one dog fights another the fight is, in some, fair. But it is still perfectly legal for an infinite number of dogs to attack a single fox for the enjoyment of others. The fox stands no chance, why is fox hunting legal whereas all other blood sports are banned.
Fox hunting is, for the most part, enjoyed by the upper-class. It is expensive to partake in as you need a horse, dogs and riding equipment (eg. helmet, boots etc.) you also need land to do it in. It is my opinion that the conservative government will not ban fox-hunting because it will loose the support and funding from its upper class, wealthy supporters who fox hunt.
In a time when Britain has very few surviving wild animals surely something should be done to protect the fox. The British government is always among the first countries to support the protection of wild animals in other countries (eg. when banning whaling) and they are very ready to attack countries who do kill wild animals (eg. the destruction of habitats in the Brazillian rain forests). But when it comes to ceasing the hunting and brutal killing of one of Britains few natural animals they seem to turn a blind eye.
According to people who partake in fox hunting it is an enjoyable sport. A sport is when two evenly matched teams or individuals partake in a game for enjoyment or a prize. It could be grossly unfair to match one footballer against a team of eleven as the result would be a foregone conclusion. If one boxer had to fight ten boxers this would be unfair. But matching one fox against a pack of dogs in a fight to the death is still considered a sport.
Cricket is a sport the brutal chase and killing of a fix for the enjoyment of the upper-class is not.






Fox hunting - FH04

Since the beginning of man on this earth we have always detected, stalked, captured and killed our prey. This was essential for our survival. In the modern world there is no need to hunt in order to obtain our food.
This raises the moral issue, 'is it right and just to kill animals if we aren't going to eat them'? Are blood sports acceptable in todays society?
Then again, should foxhunting be classed as a sport. The fox, by its nature, is a menace to farmers as it is a carniverous predator and will eat the farmers smaller livestock. Therefore foxhunting has the purpose of a modern day 'pest control company' whose role is to exterminate rodents and pests. There are however organised leisure fox hunts for fun and I am sure that the participants enjoy themselves immensely. No doubt most of the fun is had in the chase and not the kill. Therefore perhaps like fishermen (leisure), the prey could be caught and then released. Unfortunately the hounds won't see it this way!
The pursuit of fox hunting comes under a lot of attack from pressure groups. Protests are all very well but the protesters have taken it too far recently. In the 1st week of the New Year a man and his wife were beaten up severely by a gang of protestors in front of their two young children. by doing this the protestors are taking the law into their own hands and whats more are violating the very laws of inhumanity which they so ardently stick up for.
By banning fox hunting the law would probably drive the sport 'underground' as it were and the participants would find some way around it. The sport will and probably always has been under attack from protestors but strong public opinion against blood sports doesn't give them the right to fight back literally. There is a strong argument that fox hunting is a national institution and a tradition which should be continued. However, I don't think that it will be banned and all that can be done is to have policemen on site to ensure that during a hunt the fox is the only animal that gets killed!



Fox hunting - FH05

The reason why fox hunting should be banned is because it is a cruel sport. There are many people trying to stop the sport taking place. The reason why people kill and hunt foxes is because they kill chickens and because they enjoy the social side of the sport. In this present time I am sure farmers can come up with some idea to prevent the fox's getting at his chickens. If they did this then there would not be a need for killing foxs and going on hunts. When hunts take place other wildlife are harmed as well as the foxs. Some homes of animals may be destroyed and some inocent animals may be harmed. Once the foxs are caught it is said that they suffer a horrible death and if this continues it will be unfair. Many people have no problems with foxs and the hunt should not be included as a sport, as it will not be fun to experience. If fewer foxs are killed it means that there will be fewer rabbits around to destroy the crops so this will be a benefit to a lot of farmers and this is not cruel, it is just the way of life. Fox hunting is a horrible sport as the fox is hunted down by a pack of dogs and men on horseback. The fox is then chased until it is caught. Thinking about this is very upsetting and most people would be relieved if fox hunting was banned. Foxs have as much right on this earth as we do and I am sure we can deal with the situation in a different way. I am sure nobody will want to go through what a fox goes through on a hunt so I do not see why we should put foxs through it. If foxs are unable to harm farm animals there is not a danger in banning the sport.
The reason why fox hunting should continue is to keep the amount of foxs down and not causing a change in the food chain. Foxs are not needed to keep down the rabbit population as farmers are able to use poisons to kill off the rabbits. If you ban fox hunting it means that the protesters will have won and this gives them the incentive to protest about something else. A few people enjoy the sport and allows them to socalise.
I myself believe that fox hunting should be banned as it is very cruel. Anouther reason why it should not be banned is because foxes give chickens a cruel death when they kill them.
If they decide they have to continue the sport because they need to kill the foxes, the sport should be banned and a more reasonable death should be considered.




Fox hunting - FH06

Fox hunting, it is claimed, is a part of English tradition, and therefore must be held on to. This for a start is clearly hypocritical. Times and attitudes change, and in some cases that means obliterating tradition.
firstly, fox hunting is a cruel, viscious sport which shows no kind of remorse or kindliness towards animals. It involves a poor defenceless fox being chased down to death by a pack of 10 or more bloodhounds, and upwards of 10 people on horseback with rifles. In your average situation the fox has absolutely no chance. It can run for its life, and sometimes escape, but usually it is just delaying the inevitable. 
How can a 20 on 1 chase be seen as fair, or good sport, to use another argument used. How it can be sport is beyond me.
It is sometimes argued that they can mount the fox back at home, but most times the fox is son damaged by the gun shot wound that only its head is mountable. It is such a waste to see these beautiful creatures hung up on walls for show, when their numbers are dwindling. The idea raises disgust from other countries, and in some places is laughable, so why do we British hang on to this cruel and heartless exercise.
I wonder if the people who partake in this sport would like to be chased down by bloodhounds and people with guns, while they themselves were unarmed.
It seems that the upper class people who run these hunts think they own everything, the land, the fox. They seem to think that they have some kind of right to kill these foxes, which is obviously nonsense.
This ancient English tradition threatens to wipe out the fox altogether from its natural environment, as more and more are shifting to the city because food is easier to find.
In effect they are depriving their grandchildren from seeing foxes by either driving them out or killing them.
Farmers also complain about foxes killing their sheep. However, they don't tell you that some sheep are surplus to requirement, and are only breeded because the farmers know that they can sell them to the EU at a fixed price.
It would seem that the upper classes, with nothing better to do, enjoy butchering helpless, defenceless animals in the name of sport, and hence may deprive low or middle class people from ever seeing a fox.
In many cases they only catch the fox because it is so exhausted it can run no further.
There are more consequences. If a father fox is killed, then there is no way his young cubs will survive, for they depend on their father to bring them food, this will then drastically reduce fox numbers, which in the end will run the sport into the ground, for there will be no more foxes to hunt.
To sum up, fox hunting is a cruel, barbaric sport that provides the upper class with a bit of fun for a few hours, but at what cost. With the number of foxes dropping rapidly, conservation and preservation of the animal has to be a priority. Banning fox hunting would allow numbers to recover and could save the species.







