001

The National Lottery was criticised before its introduction as 'a tax on the stupid'. This is a two-pronged criticism. Firstly it is an argument directed against the government, for attempting to raise taxation, without actually introducing a new tax. The government is well aware how bitterly unpopular taxation is and, therefore, objections raised against the lottery concerned it being marketed as a game, while being in reality, merely an additional source of revenue for the government. Not only was the government criticised for taking any money from the lottery, but also for the size of its share - inevitably taking money from the lottery's 'good causes'. The objection raised to the lottery of it being 'a tax on the stupid' was secondly directed against its marketing. It was argued that the marketing companies  emphasised the likelihood of winning the market despite the statistical probabilities against this. The slogan of the National Lottery, 'it could be you' came under intense criticism. 

However, recent studies have shown that the vast majority of people speak reasonably of  the lottery, certainly not above the amount they can afford on their income. The fears that many people, duped into believing they had a realistic chance of a large win, would spend more than they could afford, appear to be groundless. These studies have shown that spending on the lottery increases as income increases -  the poor spend the least, the rich spend the most. Clearly, there are not as many stupid people in Britain as those critics objecting to the national lottery originally claimed. As far as the criticism directed against the government is concerned, there was never any concealment of the money going to the government. all other forms of gambling are taxed, as is the majority of our spending with Value Added Tax. It would be unreasonable to expect that the government would not tax the lottery.

The lottery was also criticised for misrepresentation of the areas and amounts into which the lottery money would be broken down. This objection was levelled above all at the lottery's 'good causes' - the charities in particular. It was argued that the amount of money going to charity had been amphasised too much and the figures exaggerated. Thus, it was argued, donations to charity would be heavily hit by the introduction of the lottery.

It is difficult to argue against these criticisms. The amounts given to charity by individual donations has been hit as heavily as the charities themselves warned they would be before the introduction of the lottery. Polls in the national press have revealed widespread misconceptions over the breakdown of lottery money. Many believe far more lottery-generated revenue goes to charity than it actually does.  In response, it can only be said that smaller charities have benefitted from the centralised organisation and * income provided by the national lottery. However it may be that, with the criticisms having been entirely justified, some redistribution may have to be effect. More money may have to be given to these good causes, if the lottery is to retained.

Religious bodies criticised the lottery, fearing that there would be a huge increase in gambling, as a result, especially amongst the young. It was objected that once started with the lottery, it would be very easy slip into gambling addition in more dangerous areas like horse-racing and casinos. These objections became much greater with the introduction of scratch-card lottery games. these, it was argued, posed a much more real danger of addiction because the results could be determined immediately, posing a greater threat of overspending.

In reality, the national lottery itself has caused little danger of gambling addiction. Many people, indeed, have moved over from the pools on * to the lottery, keeping the * of gambling relatively steady. The scratch-cards have caused more problems; gamblers anonymous has reported many more gambling addicts because of the scratch-cards, and their aggressive marking. People must be made aware of the actual spending of the lottery * and the actual changes of a lottery win; people must not be made to feel, by advertising, that they will probably win the lottery. A more balanced portrayal must be presented.




002

One of the biggest argument against the introduction of the Lottery was that it would become in effect a poor persons tax. Judging from experiences abroad (such as Spain and the USA) the lottery was most popular with people who saw it as their only way to escape a lifetime of poverty. Stuck in the poverty trap, where any wages are offset by the twas in benifits,  it was predicted that people would spend money they couldn't afford on a gamble they had no chance in winning. Early research centred on inner city areas with high unemployment indicates that on average, regular participants of the Lottery spend about £10 a week.

Many critics of the Lottery felt that because a proportion of the profits were going to be given to good causes, people would  be 'conned' into playing the Lottery because they would think they had been giving money to charity. It is now known that only eight pence in the pound has been given to good causes, and this has also resulted in another of the warnings being proved correct; that donations to legitimate charities has significanlly fallen since the introcution of the Lottery.

Opposition to the lottery by betting shops was disregarded by many but the popularity of other forms of gambling have also fallen since the Lottery's introduction. This has resulted in many betting shops having to close down, resulting in unemployment. The fear of a nation of gamblers was one which caused many people to be opposed to the lottery, and its massive popularity seems to indicate to this. Especially considering that traditional non-gamblers are gambling on a bet where the odds are 14 million to one.

Prior to the Lottery's implementation, no one knew where all these profits were going to go. It is now clear that the majority has gone straight into Camelot's pockets, and if the Lottery is to continue, I feel that their cut of the profits should be lessened, especially considering Virgin were prepared to run the Lottery as a publicity exercise, and giving all the profits to the government.

The destruction of the money earmarked for the 'good causes' has also raised a great deal of controversy. With major recipients being opera houses and other London based, 'upper class' institutions, many people aren't at all happy with the situation. The claims that the Lottery was going to be a poor persons tax seem justified by the fact that Lottery profits are now incorporated into the government's accounts. Therefore it is seen by them as no more than an indirect tax. With this money, collected from all over the country, they have concentrated on spending it on the capital. Therefore I think that if the Lottery is to be retained there should be seriouos changes in where the money is spent, and it shouldn't be incorporated in government expenditure plans. If needs be, a separate body should be setup to ensure that the Lottery finds, and  * its own good causes, irrespective of what the government chooses to spend its money on.
 
However there is still a strong case for stopping the Lottery because it has had a significant effect on the economy. As well as causing a fall in charity donations and also the popularity of other forms of gambling; the Lottery has also hit consumer trade. the hype over the £40 million jackpot of early January actually meant  people spent money on Lottery tickets instead of on luxury items such as CD's. Forecasters predict January's turnover could be up to 1% down on what it should be, just because of one weekend's Lottery.

One of the major cases for the Lottery's retention, is that there would be a public outcry if it was stopped. It has gained massive popularity and, as with many things, was its been started then thats it.
However this massive popularity does give further evidence for the case that the Lottery has led to an increase in gambling addiction. Many people have to buy their Lottery tickets each week, irrespective of any difficulty or inconveniance  to themselves or others. (eg people stopping motorway journeys to find a newspapers).

Until, if ever, this popularity decreased it would be very difficult to abolish the Lottery, although with a bit of reorganisation of where the profits go, I don't think anyone would want to end it.




003

When the UK's National Lottery was first discussed, people were instantly divided in opinion. The vast majority saw the idea as an exciting one and were interested in taking part in such a large-scale competition where such huge amounts of money were at stake. However, some people saw the lottery as a bad thing which would tend to become a hopeless addiction. These people tended to be those whose ideas and actions the general public are expected to follow; such as church leaders, or members of Parliament.

The arguments which these people suggested were numerous. Firstly, the amount of money which the jackpot winners were likely to receive was deemed as 'too much' or even 'unseemly'. The objectors felt that such a large amount of money (up to £9 million on any normal lottery draw) was too much to be given to just one party. The recent 'double rollover' jackpot fund gave a figure of £42 million which, theoretically, could have gone to just one lucky winner. This was deemed by the Bishop of Durham as 'an obscene amount of money', and many other members of the religious fraternity agreed and made their thoughts on the matter public.

Secondly, many people believe that the amount of the cost of each ticket which goes to various charities is far too little. At present this stands at 5%. People feel that this amount is not enough, especially as one of the main reasons for the introduction of a British national lottery was the issue of raising funds for home charities and needy causes.

This issue is coupled with the profit margin which the lottery organisers, Camelot, obtain. People deemed this to be far too high and believed that if some of the profits which Camelot gained were transferred to the charity fund, things would be a lot fairer for everyone.

The gambling aspect of the lottery was raised and questioned upon its introduction. Those against gambling were clearly also not in favour of the Naitonal lottery. Fears of 'lottery addiction', especially by those who could not afford the weekly price of tickets (often more than one) at £1 a week, proved  well-founded in some cases after the lottery's introduction. These people tended to be spending a greater percentage than they could afford of their weekly income on tickets, whilst having other affairs, perhaps those of the family, unattended. This was fuelled by the belief that these people would eventually win; and that the more tickets that they bought, the sooner it would happen. This 'lottery fever', affected many people; and some people objected at the lottery organisers giving these people 'false hopes', when they played, especially on the odds of winning (or even breaking even after the costs of ticket purchase). Gambling itself is seen as bad by some people; so a nationally-run, governmented-endorsed gambling system was clearly not in the favour of these individuals. 

It is my belief that the National Lottery is a good thing, however, and I believe that it should be retained. In the short time which it has been running, it has brought much happiness to many people, be they winners of prizes (Jackpot or otherwise), those who have benefitted from the charity payments which the lottery provides, or high-ranking members of Camelot. 

If the lottery is taken at face-value, it can be seen as a harmless piece of enjoyment  for many parishes and individuals across the country. The elements of hope and suspense are mixed very well and the lottery's slogan 'It could be YOU' come across well amplifying the fact that everyone who buys a ticket has an equal chance of winning.

As long as people do not take the lottery too seriously, it remains a good thing. It is when people become fixed in the idea that it is more than a 'fun flutter' on a potential fortune that it becomes dangerous towards these individuals.
The money which is taken from the prize fund to go to worthy causes across the country is another good reason for maintaining the lottery. 
Over the short time which the lottery has run, it has become a national institution, bringing happiness and an element of fun and suspense to many people. To abolish it now would provoke a huge outcry and would be a very  unpopular move if it went ahead.




004

The introduction of a National Lottery in Britain in November 1994 happened only after a long period of controversy. In the past few years, a number of Private Member's Bi lls were put before Parliament in favour of a National Lottery, but were defeated in each case. However, with the weight of the government behind it, the National Lottery was eventually approved. 

Much of the objection to the National Lottery came from church leaders. Bishops from the Church of England have condemned the widespread encouragement of gambling, leaders of the Methodist church have expressed great concern at the effect on low income families who spend more than they can afford on tickets, and cardinals in the Catholic church have criticised the system for sharing out the 'good causes' money.

Disasters, from a public relations point of view, has followed Camelot, the managers of the National Lottery, from the start. The first multi-million winner's request for no publicity was ignored by Camelot, who dropped hints about his identity to the press until they tracked him down. Arguments for jackpot capping have been put forward by the opposition in Parliament and in editorials in the broadsheets, and recently in the Sun the editorial suggested that there should be a maximum jackpot of £10 million. The recent controversy about the impartiality of the head of Office, the lottery regulator, in accepting gifts from one member of the Camelot consortium, has made it look increasingly likely that Camelot's license will not be renewed when it expires in a few years.

Yet the lottery has been hugely popular. 95% of all adults are said to have played at least once, and the amount of money spent since the first week amounts to £125 for every person in Britain aged sixteen or over. Perhaps it could be said that multi-million jackpots are the new opiate of the masses. The frenzy seen just the other week, as the estimated jackpot rose to over £40 million, was quite startling. It is argued that the lottery is good because it enables people to dream dreams of a life of leisure, guilt-free in the knowledge that their money is going to charity, while in reality half of their pouind goes into somebody elses' pocket, a tiny fraction to charity, and the rest to the government and to Camelot. I believe that the success of the lottery is basically founded on ignorance and gullibility. But the argument that 'It could be me' is persuasive enough to counter the odds of millions to one.

It is overwhelming unlikely that any moves will be made for scrapping the lottery. For this would be electoral suicide for the government. But some modifications to the way the lottery is run would make a huge improvement. Camelot's share of the takings should be reduced, for example, and more money given to charities. Instead of supporting midelle class activities such as the Royal Opera House, money should be spent on the lower class who buy most of the tickets. Also, the jackpot should be capped. The thought of any one person winning £42 million seems ridiculous. £10 million is probably a workable figure, while still remaining in the 'unimaginable riches' category.

I believe that the whole concept of a National Lottery is flared, and, despite the sums donated to charity and the few big winners whose lives are genuinely improved, on the whole it has caused more misery than happiness. Abolition may be too much to hope for, but I think that the system should be closely looked at before the license is renewed.






005

The National Lottery was introduced to Britain in November 1994. Since the first draw it has become increasingly popular involving millions of people across the country each week. The proposal of a lottery brought about many obejctions and complaints;
There were, and still are, two principle concerns the Anti-National Lottery Campaigners still have. For people living in high society a 'flutter' on the National lottery each week has no effect on their financial position. These kind of people can afford to spend £10-20 a week. The concern lies for the, and I use the term lightly, 'working class citizens'. These people work hard throughout the year and cannot afford to spend copious amounts of money on the lottery. The problem is, these working men and women and un-employed men and women do spend money they can't afford.

The second of the two problems is the encouragement of gambling. The National Lottery after all is another gambling game. The probability of winning the jackpot is approximately 1 in 14 million and the probability of winning ten pounds is 1 in 58. It is gambling, but more importantly it is gambling made available to 16 year olds. A lot of the gambling problems tend to lie with the scratch cards associated with the lottery. These are easily purchased and the attraction is winning on the spot. The thought ov being rich instantly encourages gamblers young and old and under-age to purchase tickets.

The National Lottery however has its good points. There is one main advantage to the lottery. It has helped charities and societies around the country to achieve things which would otherwise have been impossible. From buying a young child with brain problems a very expensive piece of stimulative equipment to building a new village hall for a small community in the Shetland islands, the lottery has helped young and old, far and wide.

The lottery has also created jobs, encouraged spending and has made many people have happy dreams about what it would be like to be rich.

The National lottery has its good points and its bad points. Deciding whether it should have been introduced or not is very much a personal thing and depends on how importantly you rate the points I have ephasised in this essay. I believeit is a benefit to the country.





006

The National Lottery was seen by many as bad for the country as it would increase gambling and exacerbate the situations of many whose financial situations would not accommodate the increase in spending. The basic principlees behind the lottery are that a small  number of people are able to become monumentally rich from the contributions of many. Despite objections, the vast majority of lottery players see it as harmless fun which won't break the bank.

The main objection to the lottery is based on the grounds that those who play it most are those who can afford it the least. Many Britons are in situations of poverty where the lack of employment prospects and the deterioration of the welfare state means that the lottery is seen as the only way to solve their problems. The idea that the 'quick fix' can turn their lives around seems to mask the fact that they are spending what they cant afford. By the laws of averages, the population stands to lose out as only fifty per-cent of money is allocated to the prizes. It is believed that the only winners will be the government who take a cut, camelot - the organisers - and the small number of participants who 'get lucky'. Many argue that the spread of wealth across Britain is uneven enough as it is. The Lottery would create more 'super-rich' people whilst reducing the financial capabilities of those at the lower end of the spectrum. Yet these people would get into a vicious circle where the only way to pay off gambling debts would be to win, and so the problem increases.

The issue of whether gambling should be condoned also came to the fore. Church leaders were immediate in their criticism of the lottery. Their argument was based on such moral grounds. They threatened an increase in poverty  as well as further increasing the materialism of society which was bad enough before the idea of a lottery was introduced. Gambling has been found to be addictive. Therefore many people will take up the lottery without being able to stop. The belief that their numbers most come up as soon as they stop serves to trap them within the lottery. Many have pointed out that, despite realising that their chances are slim, the desire to join the upper end of society overrides any common sense. The temptation would become too great. The minor prizes serve to remind participants that winning is possible, so that they may establish a taste for victory. Yet hardly any participants will make a profit on it.

Many have also speculated as to the effects of being a jackpot winner. Sudden riches overnight seems like a dream come true, but in reality could provide many problems. The dramatic change in lifestyle may mean the loss of close friends, the alienation of members of family who want a share, the possibility of endless begging letters which could make a winner feel guilty of their success. Many would not be able to cope with having their lives turned around and the need to live like a recluse, retaining anonymity so as to prevent constant hounding by the press.

The issue of the 'good causes' caused considerable suscicion. The committees appointed to allocate money may not be representative in their distribution. Many also took the view that the Lottery could never be a good thing if one considers that it is a feature of conservative government!

Despite the numerous objections, the introduction of the lottery has induced a 'fever' across the nation. It popularity has exceeded all expectations and has not decreased despite predictions that the novelty would wear off. It has created an extra element of excitement in the lives of many, as well as the financial recompense that many have been lucky enough to achieve. The basic argument in favour of the lottery is that the population can think for itself, it wants the lottery and so there should be no need to end it. The vast majority of participants can afford to enter and consider the minimal contribution to be nothing but harmless fun. As Britain is a democratic nation there should, therefore,  benot justification for withdrawing the lottery. 

The spending of lottery money has caused considerable controversy. Many haveobjected to projects such as the Welsh Opera House which are seen as bastions of the class divide. However the vast majority of money has been well-allocated. Subsidies for the arts and sports may well serve to rejuvinate our culture. Schools across the country have benefitted a great deal from the funding which has allowed the creation of new facilities. In fact the increase in Sporting facilities and training academies may well increase our sporting prowess in the long term, something that would be most welcomed and for which many would be happy to pay for. The contributions to medical research may also make us a healthier nation.

If all is considered, the National Lottery is a good thing for Britain as it has led to a large increase in spending. The drawbacks only affect a small number of people who may well have encountered the same problems from other means of gambling without the existence of the lottery. The cultural benefits do seem to outweigh the moral and psychological drawbacks.




007

There were 2 main objections raised against the introduction of the national lottery.
The first was the objection that the lottery would be little more another form of taxation, in fact, none than that, a tax on the poor. The second and main objection came from charities who predicted that charitable donations would go down with the introduction of the lottery, as people would be less likely to give money to charity, instead buying a lottery ticket, with the excuse that some of the money spent buying the ticket would go to charity.
There was also some controversy over the awarding of the lottery organisation franchise, which eventually went to Camelot, which was not seen as the strongest contender for the bid: other companies or consortiums promised to give more money to charity with lower running costs. Richard Bronson promised to give all of his profits to charity, but was rejected. My personal objections to Camelot as the lottery organiser is that a large proportion of the consortium are american or foreign firms, for example IBM has a sizeable stake in Camelot. The British national lottery run by non British firms.
since its introduction there has been more controversy over the national lottery. When it promised to give 45 pence in every pound to charitable causes, it neglected to promise that most or all of this money would go to charity. There has also been some controversy over the allocation of money. For example 3 million pounds were given to Eton college one of the richest public schools for a gymnasium money was also given to the royal opera house. The lottery seamed to be a reverse Robin Hood: stealing from the poor to give to the rich.
The lottery has also suffered alegations that it is addictive, especially with the introduction of scratch cards. It has been claimed that it is so addictive that people will spend all their availiable cash on lottery tickets, only to be disappointed.
It has been calculated that only 4 pence out of every pound recieved by the lottery goes to charitable causes, the rest is tax the prize fund, profits, and the so called charities. It has also been calculated that the chance of winning anything substantial is one in millions, ie highly unlikely. 
It has also been alleged that the jackpots are too high most of the lucky winners have said themselves that the jackpot had runed their life, alenating them from friends and family.
In conclusion, I think that the lottery should be retained, but not in its present form. I think that jackpots should be capped at 2 million pounds, and the prize fund shared between more people: it is better to give forteen people a fortune than to give fourteen fortunes to one person. I would also remove any american buisness interests and give the charity money to more diserving 'charity'. Now the lottery is in place, it would be very difficult to remove it from society. 



008

There were many objections raised against the introduction of the National Lottery when the idea was first proposed.
The main issued raised was the unemployment that would occur in the pools company industry. As the Lottery would sound more appealing due to the larger winnings, greater public interest and the fact that it is easier to fill in than a pools coupon, less people would do the pools coupon, and this decrease in demand would mean that pools companies such as Littlewoods and Vernon would be forced to make employees redundent due to a decrease in profits.
There were also problems raised about addiction and people younger than sixteen obtaining numbers. When the National Lottery was interduced and also the scratch cards many people became addicted to buying them, most of these people were unemployed or poorly paid and the Lottery represented a source of hope for future richness, for many this was not the case, and addiction meant large debts or resulting to violence and stealing to obtain extra money; It was argued that this addiction is on a par with drug addiction and just as hard to kick. It was also argued that many people under the age of sixteen would buy lottery cards encouraging the whole nation and its youth to become compulsive gamblers, when money could be better spent on other products for instant on extra food for the family, or saving for a holiday or a car. 
There were also objections raised to the amount of money the proposed jackppot was to be each week and the idea of roll overs increasing this figure even more. Many people argued that the general public would not be able to cope with becoming overnight multi-millionaires and the untold pressure of fame on the frount pages of a tabloid and begging letters would make many people crack, and that they would never lead a normal life ever again and lose many friends.
Finally the lottery was thought to put less money into charity collection boxes as everyone would prefer to put their last pound on a lottery card than in a collection box.
Despite this after a year of the National Lottery there are many cases put forward for retaining it.
The main case is the amount of money of money that goes towards research charities, this was not the case at the start but was introduced later, also grants are given out to preserve our great countries heritage and culture, for example extensive work to repair an exsisting art gallery. Also many sporting projects receive grants to build more recreational areas for the youth and public to express themselves and get them off the street and decipline them.
Another case for retaining it is the fact that people are still prepared to buy a ticket, and if the demand for a ticket is there, there is no reason why the supply should not be also. It gives people hope and something to look forward to during the week.
It has also increased the profits of many newsagents throughout the country as they get a small percentage of the money for each ticket sold.



009

When the National Lottery was introduced, 14 months ago there were many arguments put forward as to why it should survive, or alternatively why it was harmful.
The main objections to the Lottery were as follows: Firstly by publicising a gambling event on such a wide scale, it brings gambling to a wider audience than it would otherwise have. Consequently many people who may have otherwise not gambled, become addicted to gambling.
Secondly, gambling is indulged in by a large number of people on lower incomes, who attempt to win prizes to improve their low standard of living. Due to the massive sizes of some of the Lottery jackpots many people are persuaded to spend large proportions of their income on trying to win an amount of money that would considerably change their life.
Another critisism is of the size of the jackpots themselves. Many people believe that the size of the main prizes are so great that winners find it difficult to comprehend the amount of money they have won and consequently it is often spent or invested unwisely. Also because of the amount of money won winning the Lottery jackpot can often run peoples lives. Many people claim, after winning a jackpot, you slowly lose friends and can become completely cut off from the lifestyle you were previously used to. In fact it is claimed that the only way to keep friends is to not mention that you have won the jackpot.
However the Lottery also has its beneficial aspects: The lottery raises an enormous amount of revenue for the Government, which would otherwise to have been raised through increased taxes. This money is mostly then invested into important institutions by the Heritage Fund. Consequently it has enabled the survival of many theatres and other places of historic and cultural interest. Another positive point is that the Lottery is entirely voluntary; those who disapprove need to pay.
 Also the lottery helps to retain small shops and newsagents from being 'chased out of business' by bigger chains and supermarkets. The Lottery organiser, Camelot decided to only sell the lottery tickets from small shops and post-offices to increase their trade and also they gain some of the revenue (around 5p in every £1) from the tickets.
Clearly the National Lottery has its positive and negative aspects. It also has other problems, according to some people, such as encouraging under-age gambling, putting other lottery firms out of business and the enormous abnormal profits earned by the organiser, Camelot. However the long term implications on gambling habits plus the positive effects will have to be considered before a decision on its existance is made.


010

National Lottery draws have become a rigor part of Saturday nights for most British Families. Some people have become millionaires overnight because their numbers have been picked out. However, before the first draw was made, heated debate centred around the fact that should the National Lottery even exist?
During the debate many interested parties stated their objections to the National Lottery. One of Britain's most famous businesses and Families had a particular objection to the start of the National Lottery. The 'pool' companies and Littlewards, in particular, were particularly worried about the start of the National Lottery. They were worried that people instead of spending money on the 'pools', would stake a £1 on the National Lottery instead. This was a major part of their argument, that the National Lottery would take their business away and due to this they would have no need to employ as many workers, causing an increase in unemployment in Merseyside, already an unemployment problem spot.
Charities were worried that they would lose out. They had been promised a cut of the profits from the National Lottery, so many pence in the pound (aprox 40p) going to the charities. However, calculations showed that charities would probably lose out, collections would cease to bring in the vital funds charitable organisations relied upon. Clubs and charities who sold scratch cards as a source of income were worried because they thought nobody would buy their cards. They could not offer large money prizes like the Lottery. More worries were expressed when the Lottery's own scratch cards were introduced, possibly meaning even less money for charities.
Large debate centred around which organisations stood to benefit from the profits made by the Lottery. Of course charities were expecting a reasonable share but who else? Varioius organisations expressed interests in receiving funds, with application being made to the National Heritage Office. Some money was to be kept to build a series of monuments to the start of the next millenium. Many people agreed with this but did not wish to see any 'White Elephants' constructed. Sports teams, clubs, social groups and communities applied for cash for new facilities and then John Major announced some profits would be used for the construction of a British Academy of Sport. However, people were worried that the money would not be evenly spread, would the North-South divide be a factor? How would the Naitonal Heritage * decide what a good cause would be? Could any money fall into the wrong hands, or be wasted? These were all major talking points and arguments raged about distribution of oney from the Lottery.
Something that became a major talking point were the profits of the organisation running the draw. Camelot stood to gain a hansome amount from the Lottery, was this right? Camelot bosses were getting * salaries for the success of the Lottery and the arguments suggested that as opposed to making such a healthy profit, money should be passed to the charities.
Due to the carrot that was the £7 million jackpot every week, analysts were worried that more people would start to gamble, spending money that they could not afford. This was a major talking point and what could these people do if they won £7 million.
As a conclusion, I think that the National Lottery has had some problems but it should be returned for a number of reasons. It is a good source of income for the fovernment and people save to pay a £1a week on the Lottery less grudgingly than if they had to pay it on taxes. The profits seem to have been shared well and some good causes have benefitted from the money that they have received from the Lottery. Undoubtedly sport and the arts have benefitted greatly and stand to benefit from this attractive source of income. With the large range of prices available many people as families have experienced some sort of reward for taking part in the Lottery. So basically since its introduction reasons for returning it out weigh those reasons for droping it.


011

There are many causes both for and against the National Lottery each with its own valied reason. When the National Lottery was introducted over a year ago there were very few groups which were against it. The general consensus of the British people was that it was exciting, but also very easy to win. This has however been purely fantasy and the number of people who are acting cynically about the Lottery is slowly increasing.  However the company who run the National Lottery, Camelot, are trying to keep up the illusion of mystery and excitment by increasing the jackpot to 40 million and introducing instans. Also thier extensive advertising campaign and even thier name, the fabled home of king Auther, are all thier to try to get people with barely enough money to live on to waste it in search of thier fortune. Almost weekly there are stories of people who have gone bankrupt just trying to win. It is a mass produced, user friendly form of gambling with extremely high stakes which you are encouraged to do by the government. It has been calle 'the tax for the poor' as inevitably the people who have least will want to win most and waste money they can not afford to. However it is so popular that the party which removes it will be the most unpopular that has been. There are many groups who are campaigning against the lottery. The most promentant of these are the church and many charity groups. The churches main arguement is that it is causing misery to thousands of people. Those who have been come addicted and have spent every thing they own on it and those who don't have enough money to feed themselves even before they waste there money on odds of illions to one which any regular gambler knows are not worth a second look. The church and charities also argue that they are loosing money  which they so desperately need to help millions of over the world as oppose to the one person who recieves millioins each week. The lottery does give a very small proportion of its earnings to charity however and international charity which saves millions of people each year would get less money than a school who wants a new sports hall. However when Camelots contract runs out is highly debatable that it will be renewed as there is Richard Brason and Virgin waiting in the wings. He wants to make no profit and only pay for the lotteries very small costs are then give the rest of the money to charity. This would greatly improve the lotteries image.
The lottery is not all bad though it does have a few good points. It brings happiness to thousands who are not addicted and can afford the ticket. For those who dare not gamble and can afford it this is a safe way to get your kicks. You can dream of greatness for those few hours ever Saturday and after all it 'could be you'! It does also do a lot of good work and supplies money to charities although its allocations are sometimes rather strange. It helps the government thus reducing taxes and giving people confidence in the economy. I think the lottery is here to stay and next weekend it will bring joy to many and misery to just a few.


012

When the national lottery was first introduced in November of 1994, many objections were raised about various different aspects of the lottery.
Firstly, before the lottery actually started, there was conflict between two parties over who should actually run the lottery. These two partieswere Michael Bronson's 'Virgin' group, and another independent group, 'Camelot'. When it was decided that 'Camelot' were to run the lottery, Richard Bronson objected on the grounds that 'Camelot' intended to take a share of the profits of the National lottery, as far as donating a percentage to good causes (such as various local support groups -ie- homeless shelters, the millenium fund, and other more prominent charities). Bronson * this was *, in that 'Virgin' would have taken no profit at all from the lottery, and all proceeds, aisde from the money given to winners of course, would have been donated to charity.
Another objection that was raised has that the National Lottery would create a 'gambler's society', with people becoming addicted to the thrill of * * every week throwing away their money. Indeed, this has been seen to become a problem, in that people from low socio-economic groups have spent more on the lottery than others, when they can't really afford to, because they wanted to 'get rich quick'. Linked in with this problem was the fact that young people (in the this case, under-sixteens) would also become hooked on the lottery, a problem which more conservative groups felt was to become as great an addiction as alcohol or drugs to young people. 
Finally, the last major objection was the possibility of one single individual winning a sum of as much as £40 million. Groups such as church teachers felt that this was too much money for one person to have when there were so many problems such as famine and homelessness in the world. Also, how would that amount of money affect a personal live. In the case of the Aston Factory worker from Newcastle, who won £18 million, it would appear that the money has ruined his life, as his wife has left him , as he apparently now suffers from chronic depression.
I, however, feel there is a case for retaining the national lottery.
Firstly, although 'Camelot', the National lottery organiser, takes a profit from the money generated by its funds, it provides an important source of charity which wouldn't otherwise be true. Beneficiants have included important Arts Foundations, as wall as charitites, which I feel benefits modern day culture.
The problem of a gambler's society, I feel is overstated by certain groups. Although there have been cases of compulsive gamblers throwing away huge sums of money in * casino's in Las Vegas, I can't think frittering away £1 on a lottery ticket each week is quite on that scale. The lottery provides people with a sense of excitement and suspension each week, and if they win, perhaps a small amount of money, then where is the harm in *. I do, however,  feel that the lottery jackpot should be limited somewhat.
Another * benefit from the lottery is on shopkeepers who hold lottery machines. The National Lottery organisers pay shopowners to have these machines in their establishments, and they can gain bonuses from the number of tickets they sell, and from the number of winners that buy tickets from that shop.
Another  * benefit, can be illustrated from the recent 'rollover' lottery, where the jackpot was £40 million. This huge sum * people from the continent (ie France, Holland, Belgium) to take part in the lottery in the hope of winning. This can lead to 'knock-on' multiplier effects, with more money being donated to charity and local economies, where foreigners buy their tickets benefitting also.
To conclude, I feel that the case for keeping the National Lottery outweighs the case for abolishing it, as long as it is carefully controlled.



013



