<ICLE-BR-SUR-0001.3>

		We are experiencing today a definate movement towards an ever closer and more integrated Europe, principally through the creation of the European Communities ie the European Economic Community (EEC); the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom). The passing of the Single European Act 1986 has given the concept of an open and common market a new lease of life by adding much detail to existing provisions in the EEC Treaty. Since the Single European Act 1986 the completion of such an open common market ( ie one free market for Europe with no trade barriers) can now be seen as a reality. However, even though Britain has joined the European Communities and accepted its affects through the passing of the European Communities Act 1972, there  has arguably been a very high price paid. This of course is the loss of absolute supremacy for the English Parliament.
		The Orthodox theory of parliamentary legislative supremacy states that Parliament cannot restrict it's own legislative omnicompetence. That is, Parliament today cannot pass laws which limit tomorrow's Parliament's legislative powers, be they restrictions on manner and form, or as in the case of the European Communities Act, restrictions on subject matter. Inherent in the founding treaties as amended is the idea that European Community law must prevail over national law. Therefore, in the case of a contradiction between the two, European Community law must be abided by. This first aspect of Britain's membership of the European Communities has thus already shown a restriction on Britain's legal system : that of the doctrine of implied repeal. The court's view of this argument is of utmost importance; however the judges have not had to decide this point as yet. The orthodox Lord Denning has described Britain's Accession as a "farewell to our sovreignty" on the one hand and yet on the other hand he has said that theoretically conferred powers can be retained, even though in practice it would be virtually impossible.
		The radical theorists would agree that it is "farewell to our sovreignty" completely. They believe that if Parliament is indeed supreme then it should be able to legislate on absolutely anything, including putting legal limitations on itself. Such fettering is permanent according to the radical theory and the passing of the European Communities Act 1972 is one example of entrenchment (or rather, it has not been proved otherwise).
		I tend to agree with the radical view that there must be some restrictions, for example, there must always be rules laid down as to the manner and form of Parliament, otherwise anybody could pass any law and that would simply be ludicrous. I believe that the same applies to the fettering of Parliament's powers as regards subject matter. Also, it is all too important to consider the practicalities. Apart from Greenland, no other country has tried to leave the European Communities (and Greenland was an exception anyway because it's reason for leaving was a regaining of independence). Thus, for any of the present members, especially those long- standing members, to leave now there would be an indeterminable legal upheaval. This would be especially so in Britain's case as it has a common law system and has adopted European Community precedents. To untangle the law of Britain from that of the European Community would thus be almost impossible. However, it must be emphasised that contrary to the way the title of this essay could be construed, Britain's Accession has not caused a total submission of its supremacy; but, like all other Member States, it has only given up some of it's powers and thus supremacy in particular areas to the European Communities.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0002.3>

		When the treaty of Rome was signed in 1957, the foundation was laid for a new "continent" - a united Europe. It was said that Europe would not be created quickly, but over several years. When Britain entered the European Community in 1973 after a national referendum, the debate began concerning Britains relationship with Europe. When 1992 was set as the date for the single European Market, the debate flared up again, but over how far Britain should be integrated. The rest of Europe seems prepared for 1992 but Britain seems to be decidedly hesitant. The former Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher was not been to lead Britain into a United Europe because she felt it would lead to a loss of our sovereignty.
		There is no doubt an integrated market would have multiple benefits for the countries involved. Businesses and other trading organizations are preparing themselves for 1992, and the single market. Trade will be easier, with no frontier controls allowing free flowing transportation of merchandise. There will be business booms and free competition with the removal of protective practices, along with greater freedom to travel.
		Many Britons would consider Europe has affected Britain too much already, with decimalization, the new Euro-passports and now the pound sterling being tied to the ECU. They may feel Britain is being pulled into Europe. Further changes are forecast for Britain, effecting day to day matters, to create a "European Standard". This may make Britons resentful of Europe and tired of "1992 and all that". A single market requires one central institution to co-ordinate all movements of goods and policies. Will the people of Britain be prepared to give up their government and be directed from Strasbourg or Brussels?. Many people would not. Will the day come when the pound sterling is taken over by the ECU ? It may well - but will the Britons have a chance to voice their opinions and views ?
		Europe may argue that the benefits from a single integrated market would far outweigh any national drawbacks. As the date draws nearer, the awareness of Britons to Europe must increase. They must look into the future and consider possible effects. Will Britain be drawn into Europe against its will ? Perhaps as more of Britain becomes "Eurofied", Britons will wake up and see their sovereignty is being taken away. Britain has never geographically been a part of Europe. We are in the EEC and we should be able to benefit from free trade. We have been an island for too long - being independent and able to stand alone. We have a sound democratic process, which many people would not want to give this up . A fully integrated market with Britain as a full member would be to the detriment of our political system and consequently leading to a loss of sovereignty.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0003.3>

		European integration ia a wide-ranging and contraversial subject, concerning the formation of a single political and economic entity amongst the members of the EEC, and many of the steps to its completion are already underway. It is also unprecedented in the history of Europe. The plans are to form a single economic market from the member nations, which would undoubtedly and unavoidably lead to political concessions on the part of Britain, if not total politically capitulation to Brussels. It is obvious that this would lead to a loss of sovereignty for Britain, as indeed for all the other member states, and that is to say that there would be a loss of national government power in favour of a central European institution of policy making. This would cover four main areas of British society, i) economic, ii) political, iii) defence, and iv) legal.
		As far as economics is concerned, British independant economic policy would be undermined, primarily as being in a monetary union with other states would lead to a loss of the exchange rates as a method for controlling the flow of goods in and out of Britain. The British government would no longer be in a position to devalue or revalue the pound, to regain competitiveness with our European neighbours. This could mean Britain becoming an unproductive backwater in Europe. The Bank of England would also loose the right to print and distribute an independant currency, ie. the pound, and the British government would loose power over all monetary  policy, as there would be a single European exchange rate, interest rate, and inflation rate. This is because the supply of money would be controlled by a central European bank, having jurisdiction over these variables. This would render Britain with only fiscal policy to control her economy, but there are even rumours that this may also be centralised in a new Europe, embracing everything from tax policy to social security payments.
		As a natural cosequence of this, there would be a political loss of sovereignty, because if there is no way that British instructions can exercise their power, they may as well not exsist. Already there is a European Parliament, being given ever greater powers to govern. This natural power shift to the centre would leave the British parliament and House of Lords with a greatly reduced scope for policy making in important economic, social and political matters, though it is important not to forget that we would be adequately 

represented. As far as defence is concerned, Britain is an integral part of NATO, something which is increasingly becoming debateable if we will soon have to consider making united defence plans with all of our European partners, which will probably involve a defence policy for all of Europe rather than many individual ones as we currently have. We have to question whether independant action, such as Britain is undertaking in the Gulf at the moment, will be permitted.
Law making would also be decided by a central European body, and the institutions which currently pass laws in Britain for Britain would be altered. This is because any laws passed would be binding for the whole of Europe. There will undoubtedly be a loss of sovereignty for Britain in a single Europe, though naturally not a complete loss, as we would have equal rights to dtermine Europe's future as the other members. The event of a single European state would entail Britain loosing power over its own affairs in a number of different areas, and would make us partly responsible for all of Europe, rather than wholly responsible for Britain. It would also however deprive us of the right to independantly govern ourselves and manage our affairs, as we have effectively been doing for over 200 years.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0004.3>
		The European Community is a unique grouping of twelve sovereign European Member States who are committed to the development of closer economic and political co-operation. The community has an aim to break down the economic and political barriers that have traditionally divided Europe. In particular, the community seeks to facilitate greater movement within its frontiers; movement not only of goods but of services, capital and people. However, the issue of sovereignty is certainly a much debated one; to what extent should a member hand over its sovereignty to the Community, if at all ? Let us look at the founding of the European Community, before we discuss the issue of sovereignty in more detail.
		There were several attempts at peaceful unification after the First World War, but only after Europe had again been devastated by war was the futility of national rivalry truly apparent. The political and economic exhaustion of the European states called for a fresh start and a far more radical approach to the re-ordering of Europe. This fresh start came about because of three main factors. Firstly, was Europe's realization of her own weakness, after having lost her age-old position at the centre of the world stage to the United States of America and to the Soviet Union. These superpowers were economically, militarally and politically stronger than the divided individual European states. Secondly was the conviction that military conflict should in the future be avoided; after all, the two great wars had both begun as European "civil wars". Thirdly was the common desire for a better, freer world in which international relations would be conducted in a more orderly way. One of the first major moves towards European integration was the creation of the European Economic Community, in 1958. Its membership has grown from the ten original founder countries to twenty-three. One of the most innovative features of the European Community compared with other international bodies is that the member states have ceded to it a part of their national sovereignty and endowed it with its own sovereign powers, which it can use to adopt acts, having the force of national law. This novel approach to pooling national sovereignty is called "integration". The 1970's saw progress in integration, with the introduction of community policy instruments, which enabled greater scope for national policies. 
		All of the member states agree in principle to the idea of a single market by 1992, however each wish their own interests to be safeguarded. This is to say that none want to sacrifice their national sovereignty, many want unanimous voting, not majority voting. Many see this issue as a threat to their own regulations and laws, and could foresee a drop in standards if they do not stand firm.
		The situation is seen as a threat to the countries in question who do not wish to boldly give up their sovereignty for the sake of European unity. Whether or not the continuation of the progress in the field of European unity is sucessful depends very much on the people of Europe. If a feeling of European unity develops and can be sustained, the threat will subside as a feeling of identity takes over.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0005.3>
		The Single European Act, signed by the twelve European Community member states in February 1986, represents a commitment by all the member countries to achieve a single market in goods, services and capital before 1992. Its potential as an organisation is huge. With over 312,000,000 inhabitants, it will constitute the largest single market yet to have been created, its gross product being equal to that of the United States and double that of the Soviet Union. As the title implies, one of the greatest stumbling blocks in Britain towards fuller integration with Europe is the belief that it will imply a loss of sovereignty for the elected government. In the course of this essay, we shall attempt to analyse whether this is a belief founded in reality and, if it is, why it should cause such fear.
		The Single European Act can be analysed according to three broad areas. Firstly, it reaffirms the Treaty of Rome's original aims - to remove all internal, physical, technical and fiscal barriers, creating one external frontier with uniform standards and rates within the market. Secondly, it reallocates the powers as they were laid out by the Treaty of Rome, abolishing the right to veto in the Council of Ministers. Thirdly, it recognises the position of the European Council (not originally included in the treaty), gives the role of foreign policy creation to the European Policy Corporation (EPC), changes the voting procedure for the Council of Ministers and makes the European Parliament a directly elected body. These are quite significant changes and are aimed at facilitating the transition from the partial integration which exists at the moment into fully integrated economic and monetary union.
		Britain's reputation in Europe on these issues is not an enviable one. If her image in the foreign press represents any kind of standard, she is seen variously as the most obstructive, bellicose, insular power, thwarting the path of progress, with Margaret Thatcher, the most insular Brit of all, at the helm.
		Perhaps it is not an unfair image. Although Margaret Thatcher is no longer leading the country, the position of most British politicians on the European issue appears extremely ambiguous. Very few members of parliament are willing to openly and unreservedly affirm their support for the idea of a fully integrated Europe. This could stem from two reasons : first of all, their answerability to the British electorate, which still seems wary about the idea of a Britain fully incorporated into Europe, and secondly, the belief that their own role will be diminished by the abdication of sovereignty to the European Parliament in Brussels.
		This final point brings out a strong emotional response on the part of the British and, I suspect, represents one of the core aspects of the present government's apparent fear of being steam rollered into a more united Europe.
		Inevitably, it will involve a transfer of sovereignty which will have different political implications for each member state. The relocation of power in the European Parliament and the direct elections held in each country to elect their members has created a parallel body to the national leadership in each country which, in many cases, has the theoretical power to overrule and impose its decisions on the member states. According to Article 3, it has been entrusted with various tasks - the elimination of customs duties, the establishment of common customs tariffs, the creation of the free movement of people, services and capital within the European Community, agricultural and transport policy, the coordination of economic procedures, the establishment of a fund for investment purposes and a body to coordinate overseas states policy. All these decisions were previously the domain of national governments.
		In Britain's case, her traditional suspicion of continental Europe seems to have created a dual policy - a theoretical acceptance of the need to abdicate this power to Brussels but a refusal to implement it through her policies.
		Admittedly, Europe's history would not seem to offer much hope for the success of such a venture. All such past attempts have foundered on the thorny issue of national interest as present attempts at creating a common agricultural policy have shown. Yet, British fears do not seems to be particularly influenced by the historical perspective. It is rather a present conviction, perhaps encouraged by the British politicians, that Brussels would adopt policies not in the British interest. Given that each country has equal representation and will participate equally in the decision making process, this seems a curious anomaly. The effects will be equal throughout Europe, each gaining and losing according to its own particular position but no one nation having total domination over the others.
		This view does not seem to hold much credibility in Britain. We want the economic benefits but are unwilling to concede the political powers necessary for it to take effect. If all nations take such a view then the Single European Act is likely to become deadlocked and founder very quickly. A change in perspective is required that enables a nation to see beyond its own narrow interests to the benefits that could accrue from a more supranational approach. As I have said, sovereignty will be lost but, with an innovative and unblinkered view, this could be a positive rather than negative development for Britain.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0006.3>
		The single European market now seems to be inevitable, although many differing views and interpretations of the idea are still evident. The fact that the concept of a single market is itself very hard to define has been the source of much confusion and some hostility towards it from the British public. A great fear of losing our sovereignty has stemmed from the varying theories of what "1992" entails, and from many people's wish to remain ignorant of current developments.
		The most evident implication of the single market is, in my view, the abolition of trade and customs barriers. This will apparently extend our free market economy to the whole of Europe, or at least to those countries who participate. The consequences of the lifting of these barriers can be viewed positively or negatively : for British firms which rely on international trade to survive, the single market will be an incentive to increase dealings with other European firms. In addition, it will be more convenient to move goods across frontiers - especially with the eminent launch of the Channel Tunnel for public and commercial use. However, it can be argued that firms in the British economy will suffer from European competition, or even dominance. Also, if a single European currency is ever introduced as part of the process, it is thought that European firms will have a new incentive to "buy British", as the formalities required in foreign exchange will no longer exist and the UK's current balance of payments situation may even improve as a result. Similarly, British firms might look for new products in other countries if they are no longer constrained by tariffs, bringing more diversity to their product range and therefore enhanc?? profits.
		But the question of the single currency is itself a subject of much controversy. I believe that it is an aspect which is more threatening to British sovereignty than the general concept of the single market. Somehow, the prospect of treating Europe as one market is more acceptable if the countries participating keep their individual currencies and hence their identities. However, the idea of all the states using one currency is generally regarded as being a much greater threat to sovereignty, and would mean, to many people, the sacrificing of their pound to suit the aims of the Europeans. Exactly how far the negotiations on a single monetary union will go is still debatable but it must be seen as a real possibility.
		These practical considerations are, then, major factors in Britain's attitude towards European monetary union, and on one hand I feel them to be a threat to sovereignty. On the other hand, I consider that the many varying cultures and languages which will continue to exist throughout Europe will serve to retain the individual nations'identities once the single market is in operation. It must be noted that so many Britons regard themselves as being somehow "different" from other Europeans, probably due to the fact that Britain is detached geographically from "the Continent", that it is highly unlikely that we will merge into a mass culture, losing all of our Britishness. This detachment, or even aloofness, is demonstrated by the British Government's current lack of commitment to the European cause and its persistence in voting against motions which are favourable to the other representatives of the EEC.
		The issue of the open market therefore continues to be problematical and somewhat vague in parts, but almost everyone who has an interest in Britain's future has to form an opinion of it - the question now is whether we let our views about our nation's sovereignty jeopardize Britain's position in an economic and political development which is still all our interests.  




<ICLE-BR-SUR-0007.3>
		Everyone waits with anticipation for 1992 and the introduction of the single market for the European Economic Community. It involves the expansion of the british market into all the other markets of Europe and vice versa. One will see the disappearance of all tariff barriers and customs and this in turn will allow for the free movement within Europe.
		Britain is very apprehensive. As she is not formally connected to the Continent as such, but is an island, the vanity of british nationalism is apparent. The British will find it very difficult to take orders from another governing power from the continent (and after all it is still called "the Continent" - as though it were a separate entity).
		The obvious advantage is the far wider market open to British industry and a bigger jobs market. 
But one section will suffer. It is those firms which up to this time would be depended upon to obtain imported goods for Britain. This would all change because of the introduction of the ECU - European Currency Unit - a planned single currency within Europe. Firms buying components from abroad could easily purchase the goods with the ECU if it is successfully brought in, or otherwise they could use their own currency without having to pay such things as import tax. But I feel the British would resent the use of ECU - taking away the pound would be taking away part of Britain's own identity. Is it why many British people are slow to educate themselves about the future plans, despite the fact it is being hailed as a great step forward ?
		With the mergence of all the individual markets, paper-pushing will be reduced as there will be no more exchange controls with a single currency and the bureau de change will also become redundant. Staff that controlled customs would have to be merged into the intercontinental customs control and staffing would have to be cut down.
		Another negative move is the plans discussed for legislation. Suggestions have been put forward for the adoption of the present system to one central legislative power for Europe as a whole. This idea does not seem acceptable to the British public. I feel if each country held onto its own system of legislation then they would also hold on to their own good feeling of identity, which would be lost under a central power. After economic and legislative matters, it would only be language and culture that would separate each country. Europe may as well then take on the form of a "super"-country. Britain, especially, is afraid of losing its national identity.
		Whether Britain will lose its sovereignty or not, is entirely a personal viewpoint. But will stepping out of the single market be worthwhile preserving our sovereignty ? Whatever the British viewpoint, the single market will still go ahead according to the needs of the European countries. But will Britain lose out big opning out ?



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0008.3>
		With 1992 looming ever closer, the debate concerning the sovereignty of Britain is becoming more acute. There are those who feel that Britain should join Europe and enter into "The Single Market". But, on the other hand there are those who believe that Britain's sovereignty is far too important to abandon it. We must now consider the pros and cons of Britain joining "The Single Market".
		In general we are already closely linked with the rest of Europe. Some believe that all that seperates us is the Channel. Soon, of course, this will become even less of a barrier with the completion of the "Channel Tunnel". When this tunnel, which will run under the water between England and France, is finally completed ( hopefully in the near future) it will be much easier to travel to and from Europe. The European countries will become more accessible. This is merely one step towards "The Single Market". There are also plans concerning trade barriers.
		Some people intend to drop all the barriers where trade and commerce are concerned. In this respect, it would become much easier to obtain items from Paris or Rome and a lot quicker. Imports and exports will also become more frequent and popular. We will be able to sell our goods from Britain to a wider range of customers in several more countries, just as, in the same way, we will also have the ability to buy more goods from a wider background. Buying and selling will become very important in "The Single Market" just as business will. Perhaps it will also be possible to accumulate shares from German or Spanish business and they, vice versa.
		In order to aid "The Single Market" there are proposals at present, to introduce one monetary system into Europe, including Britain. If this becomes the case, there are those who believe that buying and selling and even travelling will become less difficult. The introduction of one monetary system would certainly ensure that the majority of problems concerning world-wide money comparisons would almost be abandoned.
		However, there are, of course, those who object to this one monetary system; Margaret Thatcher being one of the many. They believe that if Britain signs away the sterling and becomes part of "The Single Market" that her sovereignty would be lost. Indeed we have had a monarch for a very long time; would the joining of Britain to "The Single European" mean that the monetary and also the Royal Family, would have to step down ? What would the consequences be if we joined "The Single Market" ?
		Some believe that there are many consequences. For example, they say that Britain is a small island which has stood alone for centuries. We fought in both world wars and survived and although we fought with France etc, we were not part of the community. These people see that Britain has survived very well so far, so why change anything. If Britain were to join "The Single Market", because of our well-known independence and head-strength, would we not just be "rocking the bout" so to say ?
		Another consequence would also be the risk to British businesses. If we would be allowed to invest in European businesses then surely they too would be able to invest in our businesses in Britain. This may in fact exclude or push out many of the smaller British investers who just could not compete with the richer Europeans. Perhaps our businesses would all be taken over by the Europeans eventually. These people fell threatened by those who would wish to become involved in British business. An another risk would be to unemployment which is fairly high at the moment. Would the numbers of those not working rise considerably as the Europeans enter Britain ? This seems very likely.
		And so, as this essay has outlined there are both pros and cons for Britain joining "The Single Market". Whether or not one thinks that Britain would lose her sovereignty is a personal view; there is certainly the scope for argument either way.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0009.3>
		A very important characteristic of the UK constitution, and one which is central to the question of sovereignty, is that it is the Westminster Parliament that is the supreme legal authority in the UK.
		According to the orthodox school which subscribes to the views of Albert Venn Dicey, the Westminster Parliament is omnicompetent and can pass laws on any subject it likes to regulate the activities of any person, anywhere, even those of aliens outside British territory. In theory, then, the Westminster Parliament could pass a law banning smoking on the streets of Paris. If our Parliament did so, British courts would be obliged to accept Parliament's decision and pass judgement accordingly. Of course, in practise, as the Radical school (who believe that the Westminster Parliament is not legislatively supreme) point out, in this hypothetical situation, the Parisiens would take no notice whatever of the UK Parliament's legislation; and Parliament would in effect be fettered.
		Dicey said that as each Parliament is omnipotent, and therefore has the power to make or unmake any law, no Parliament could bind its successors as to the content or manner and form of subsequent legislation. The Radical like to point out that since the passing of the European Communities Act in 1972, the Westminster Parliament has ceded its sovereignty and supremacy to Europe. The orthodox school retaliate by pointing out that since a Westminster Parliament passed the 1972 Act thereby putting the UK into the European Communities, a future Parliament could just as easily repeal this Act, and take us out of Europe again. In this case, Britain would have retained her sovereignty and Parliamentary supremacy.
		Of course, this whole question is still a subject of fierce debate. British courts have avoided a head-on clash by finding ambiguity in a domestic statute and resolving that ambiguity so as to give effect to our Community obligations, or by finding that a statute passed prior to the 1972 European Communities Act is repealed by implication by that Act and does not represent the latest intention of the Westminster Parliament or by arguing that subsequent legislation was inadvertant and that the Westminster Parliament could not have intended to come into conflict with community law.
		In a recent development, the European Court of Justice rule in the case of R v Secretary of State for Transport ex parte Factortame and others (1990) that courts in Britain must suspend an Act of the Westminster Parliament where the rights of the citizens guaranteed by European Community law may be at risk. This case for the first time said that it is a principle of UK law as influenced by the European Court that our Parliament is not supreme in every circumstance. It would seem, therefore, that the advent of a single Europe is indeed meaning a loss of sovereignty for Britain, whatever the orthodox school may think to the contrary.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0010.3>
		Firstly what is European Union ? It seems to have two distinct forms of which one seems to worry the British public most; Political Union, followed by Economic and Monetary Union. In fact these issues have become so heated in Great Britain at present that they have lead to many disputes within the present government. They also appear to be one of the major reasons for the resignation of Mrs. Thatcher. In losing her, have we not already lost a part of our sovereignty ?  Europe is forcing change upon us as we have been attempting to stand back, "not letting socialism in by the back door", instead of playing an important role in positively affecting the decision making processes - or in the European Community. Great Britain cannot afford to play a minor role in a two speed Europe especially in the time of recession at present, and this has manifested itself in the top governmental disputes. So, a loss of sovereignty seems inevitable, whether we like it or not. On monetary and economic Union, I don't feel that we have much to lose; in fact on the contrary I think that we would benefit enormously, especially in the light of 1992. If only the issue were presented in a more positive light, perhaps with some modifications, I am sure that the British public would give their agreement. After all, how long is it since we lost our sovereignty to the follies of the international Stock Exchanges of New York, Tokyo and Frankfurt ? Will losing our sovereignty to Brussels or the Bundesbank make much difference ? Did not the "Big Bang" in October 1987 send shock waves world wide with share prices plummeting ? World processes are continuously becomming more and more interlinked; the effects of which often see no physical borders. I therefore see this European Unity as a natural process in World development, something which should be made easier rather than hindered. Can we really afford to play for time by dragging our feet ? 
		The issue of Political Union is still more disputed. Yes, we have a Queen and what would happen to her - would she be forced to abdicate and be succeed by King Jacques Delors ?
This is a very typical misinformed and ignorant statement posed by certain British "patriots". There are five other Monarchs in the European Community and their statuses to a great extent will not be greatly affected by any such Union.
		But there is a true cause for concern about Brussels'bureaucracy which rightly worries the British public. This situation must be changed to rid the Council of its secrecy and to transfer greater power to the European Parliament for a more democratic system. This will mean that everyone will have a fair say in what goes on - something which  must be guaranteed for such independant thinkers as the Britons themselves.
		An answer to Britains reservation on European Unity, which I find most plausible at present; a Federal Union which would ensure decisions where possible would be taken at local levels. This, if properly carried out would enable us to keep our cultural identity - the ultimate element of our sovereignty.   



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0011.3>
		If the states of Europe were to be unified, the naturally Britain would have to accept the loss of her sovereignty. It would be impossible for her to retain all that she has built over the last few centuries.
		The conceptofa singleEurope creates too many problems for the average person in Britain to perceive. The public are used toregarding Britain as isolated in that we tend to view the rest of the european continent from the safety of our position on the other side of the Channel. We segregate ourselves, in that we are an island, having no real frontiers between us and other nations.
		This has already changed, however, as the Channel Tunnel is well under way. Having made physical contact by drilling the same tunnel and meeting halfway, we have created an era where it could be said, that we in Britain, are no longer living on an island. Of course this is not true, as we still live on what is geographically an island. However, soon we will be able to drive to Europe, without, in theory, even seeing the sea.
		That first contact was a monumental moment in history, as it indicates a physicallink. Prior to this we have had many contacts with Europe and with the 1972 European Communities Act, which we signed in1973, Britain hasalready gone some distance towards losing her sovereignty.
		If sovereignty depends on a nation making her own laws, and therefore deciding her own future, by running affairs independently of all others, then Britain has indeed lost much of her independence even now.
		All EEC laws apply to all members and therefore even though something may not be British law it stands in our country and can actually be enforced here by a European court.
		This is where one of the greatest problems lies, as the British are so proud of their own legal history. Much of our law is judge made and therefore many legal disputes have deep rooted decisions and remedies. As other European Countries have constitutions, most of them have a civil law system, and all of their laws are laid out on paper. They have already been codified and reformed, whereas in Britain common law defines offences which may not even bewritten down in statutes.
		British courts have a different method of trial, they have an impartial judge who merely sits in on a case to see that justice is done and that the law is adhered to. In Europe the judge plays a different role and actually has the authority to question a witness. Could our system adjust itself to such a difference, and indeed would a lawyer accept these changes ?
		Lawyers have undergone much professional training, and are unlikely to want to disregard everything that they have spent time learning and supposedly perfecting.
		An obvious problem with a single Europe of course would be the language barrier, should we learn a common language ? There is no way that people should allow their individual languages to be lost, and therefore it would have to be clearly defined as to where and when the common language should be used.
		There are many advantages in a single Europe, such as an increase in trade which would be allowed free movement, especially with the new tax laws that have already been planned for 1992.
		If a single Europe could be created then the scope of its success would be enormous, the intenational cooperation would be amazing, something for othersto envy all around the world. But there are so many factors that could prevent it from happening. Things like a single currency for instance would probably be totally unacceptable for the average person at present. Yet people adapt and it eventually would be accepted over time with the passing of generations.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0012.3>
		It would be tempting to think of the various European Communities as an embryonic United States of Europe ; especially when we hear politicians talk of the importance of European Unity. However it is important to realise that Europe is a very long way from becoming anything like the United States. When the original 13 American states resolved to form what is now the United States of America, they were intent on forming a political as well as economic entity. They were prepared to yield as much of their own sovereignty as would be essential to allow the newly formed national government to operate as a single international political force. A balance was therefore struck in the constitution to allow the individual states as much self-government as possible while ensuring that, for example in military matters, the central government spoke for all. It is true that today one still hears the old dispute over state sovereignty and attempts to return some power to the individual states, but no-one would challenge the fact that, on matters external to the United States, the government in Washington represents the sole policy-making body.
		In Europe it is quite clear that many people would like to see a political union of the countries since this would produce a formidable international military force. However it is equally clear that while there might be some unified political action flowing from the European Communities (such as was seen over Europe's response to the British involvement in the Falkland Islands dispute), the Communities were intended as purely economic entities in the first place. Membership almost certainly involves some loss of national sovereignty, but the United Kingdom could probably leave the community by a simple majority vote in the Westminster Parliament, something which no state in the United States could lawfully do. We are still a very long way from a Single Parliament for Western Europe with power to make political decisions for all ; and even with 1992 approaching and a single market the gulf between the UK and Europe is very wide.
		The supremacy of Parliament will never be challanged. Its ability to make and break any law - made by it or Europe - means that it retains full sovereignty. Even if today it made laws to that would unite it fully with Europe and relinquish its sovereignty for ever, it could tomorrow repeal all those laws. The fact that Parliament does not bind itself or cannot be bound by any political body means that it can never lose its sovereignty unless a majority of the population wished it and Parliament consented.
		But with the average jingoistic Briton there is no chance of us curing ourselves of our xenophobia and ever wishing to be fully intergrated with Europe. Even now the channel tunnel has joined us to the continent we still consider ourselves to be separated from the world standing alone against a hostile world.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0013.3>
		Naturally, the problems of a single Europe would run as deeply as the benefits that we would presumably ultimately receive.
		It seems to me that for the past few centuries, Britain has always considered itself to be detached from the rest of Europe. Whenever necessary, she has allied herself to European powers, such as in times of war of extreme distrust.
		Britain has been eager to maintain a secure balance of power on the continent, but throughout history, she has been more concerned with her oversees empires than with anywhere else.
		In the latter half century though, her empire has diminished and she has had to face mounting responsibility in Europe.
		Because of her history of isolated sovereignty it is difficult to accept being a part of a single Europe.
		For instance, British law is based largely upon precedent, that is judge made law. We have established a system of law which dates back many centuries, and which is widely known and respected. There is very little European influence on our law, of course in many respects it will be the same, but the lack of influence will display many differences.
		With the creation of a single Europe, new law will have to be accepted throughout the continent, and it will cause both confusion and conflict.
		The British tend to be very proud and possessive of the law, and changes may well cause illfeeling and discontent. Of course, the same points will apply to the monetary system in Europe. Will there just be one system ?
		The country typically is against major change and something as fundamental as money would cause problems if it was to be altered.
		Our individual monetary system I suppose, could be seen as a symbol of sovereignty.
		It can be said that if a single Europe was created, problems may arise over its fundamental political concepts. Of course Britain would lose her sovereignty, as would the other nations of the union.
		It has been suggested that the Single Union could be based on a basic federal structure, whereby local autonomy could be saved, but the union as a whole could work together in a democratic manner.
		To a certain extent, even if sovereignty was lost, some national personality would be preserved. The fact is that, when united, European unity would still in essence be divided. There will always be aspects of one society that the others will never accept.
		Europe as a whole faces the same problems, and therefore, if a single Europe was created, uniting Britain, the problems could be dealt with quickly and efficiently.
		If the Federalists achieved their aims in a European unity, they would do their best to achieve democracy and promote it nationally, so that individuality is preserved, and that all of their positive features will be known.
		The problem facing the British, really results from their isolated past. The sovereignty of the nation has deep roots, and the fears of losing it are very great.
		Whether this would happen awaits to be seen, and would depend completely on the terms of the union, and the negotiations and feelings of the general public and the politicians leading the countries.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0014.3>
		The Crown has power to enter into Treaties which bind the UK in International Law. But this prerogative power does not include the power to alter the rights of individuals within the UK. If alterations to British law are required by the Treaty, an Act of Parliament must be passed. If Parliament fails to pass any legislation required by a Treaty then it may be in breach of its international obligations as imposed by that Treaty. This represents a loss of sovereignty as Parliament is bound to a certain extent in that Parliament is obliged to legislate under the constraint that if does not the UK will be in breach of its international obligations.
		Parliament's freedom to legislate is not in theory fettered by such a Treaty. An Act of Parliament is enforceable by British courts even if it is in breach of Britain's treaty obligations. However in interpreting statutes the court will wherever possible interpret so as to conform with international law.
		The EEC however is a distinctive Community compared with other international organisations in that it has its own broad executive and legislative powers and judicial powers for creating and enforcing Community Law, for example Regulations made by the Council of Ministers, which are directly applicable in all member states. In 1963 the European Court of Justice stated that "... the Community constitutes a new legal order of international law, for the benefit of which the states have limited their sovereign rights, albeit within limited fields, and the subjects of which comprise not only member states but also their nationals". The whole point of Community law is that it should not be overridden by domestic legal provisions of the member states.
		The Community legal order is thus inconsistent with the orthodox view of the doctrine of Parliamentary supremacy and sovereignty. UK law must recognize that the Community organs have the right to make decisions and issue regulations which may override UK legislation.
		In 1978 The European Court of Justice made a clear statement showing the extent to which it felt member states had ceded sovereignty to the concept of a Single Europe : "A national court which is called upon, within the limits of its jurisdiction, to apply provisions of Community Law is under a duty to give full effect to those provisions, if necessary refusing of its own motion to apply any conflicting provisions of national legislation, even if adopted subsequently, and it is not necessary for the court to request or await the prior setting aside of such provisions by legislative or other constitutional means".
		An accession to the EEC Parliament could give no absolute legislative guarantee or form of entrenchment to say that Parliament would not at some future date legislate to leave the EEC, or legislate in a manner which conflicted with community law. Such a guarantee would have been binding on a future Parliament which might wish one day to repeal the European Communities Act 1972 and by doing so prevent the continued operation of Community law in the UK. In theory Parliament could do this at any time - this is the orthodox theory of Parliamentary supremacy, and advocates of this theory hold the view that in this respect, a Single Europe does not and should not represent a loss of sovereignty for Britain.
		In practice however, it must be accepted that sovereignty has been lost, at least to a certain degree. Cases before British courts and the European Court of Justice have clearly shown that Community law does in fact prevail over UK law.
		Parliament is thus no longer the supreme body it once was. It is not the only source of law in the UK. There is now another body empowered to legislate for the UK and its legislation has been held by our courts to be of a binding nature, and to prevail over national law. This must surely be seen as a clear loss of sovereignty for Britain.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0015.3>
		Due to the European Communities Act 1972, the United Kingdom has since been subject to community law which, as specified in the original treaty, is supreme over all other domestic law of all the member states.
		Therefore, by being a signature to the 1972 Act and to the preceeding Treaty of Rome, we have relinquished the legislative supremacy of our Parliament, which means that hitherto the European Communities Act, no other organ existed with the power to create or repeal legislation, but which is now no longer the case.
		This surrendering of sovereignty is of course only partial but results in the United Kingdom (I use this term to include England, Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland, which constitutes the state of the United Kingdom, which is in question, rather than Great Britain which includes only England, Wales and Scotland;) no longer being known as a full sovereignty in the international sense indicating complete independence and freedom from external control.
		It follows that, if in a UK court of law a conflict between two laws occurs, ie, a ruling of the European Community and, a domestic ruling, then naturally the European Community law should take precedence. In practice, judges attempt to reconcile the two opposing laws or follow the European Community law.
		If this did not happen then the UK would be in breach of the Treaty of Rome and would consequently be in breach of international law which would attract international responsibility.
		Incidentally, the Treaty of Rome is particular in that it is directly applicable to the UK. When it was signed no Act of Parliament had to be made to transfer it to domestic law to make it applicable to UK law.
		Membership of the single market obviously has some advantages for the UK. The single European Act of July 1987 was passed through Parliament by the Prime Minister - formerly Mrs. Thatcher - because of the single European Market provision (beneficial to trade for the UK).
		 Unfortunately it also contained other clauses which were overlooked and which have now seriously affected the sovereignty of the United Kingdom.
		Before 1987, the council of Ministers could impose directly applicable law upon the UK which is enforceable in all UK courts, which effectively serves to erode our sovereignty, fortunately, no law could be passed without the UK's agreement as a unanimous decision in the Council was required. After the 1987 Act, only a majority vote was needed to implement a law, which would become law in the UK, which perhaps is totally alien to our system of law as it was never agreed to by our representative in the council. Indeed, in 1987 per Lord Denning :
"... this is when we say farewell to our sovereignty."
		As the constitution of the UK is unwritten, there are no entrenched laws; no law which is exempt from repeal. Hence the European Communities Act, like any other Act of Parliament, is UK statutory legislation which transferred the agreement of the treaty into domestic law.
		Therefore, it is possible for any government to repeal the 1957 Act and retreat from the European Community, thus restoring sovereignty in the United Kingdom ?
		Obviously I think the effects would be far more damaging to the UK than the loss of sovereignty, which will progress inevitably. As the UK economy is based upon the European market as its importer of goods, the sanctions invariably placed upon the UK by the elleven member states would cripple the economy, and devastate the pound sterling. It is therefore, far too late to remonstrate against the gradual loss of sovereignty in the United Kingdom and time to 
accept the part we must play in the single market of Europe.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0016.3>
		The Single European Act, signed in February 1986 by the Heads of Government of the 12 Member States of the European Community and which came into force on 1st July, 1987 aims to create a single market by the end of the year 1992. This major target is to be attained by the removal of all fiscal, technical and physical barriers. This means that a merchant or tradesman would be able to sell his goods in any community country, an individual would be able to borrow and deposit money in the banks of any member state and also work in any member state with national qualifications. There would also be the introduction of a European passport and an integrated transport system.
		Despite the fact that the proposals put forwad to amend the Treaty of Rome came from an Englishman, namely Lord Cofield, there has been widespread dissatisfaction in Britain regarding the single market, shown by frequent discussions in Parliament and letters to leading national newspapers, whereas Jacques Delors, the president of the European Commission described the measures adopted as a mere compromise.
		In accordance with the Constitutional Law of Britain, Parliament is the supreme law-making body in the United Kingdom. Consequently the emergence of another source of law, deemed to be supra-national is inevitably a problem. One of the prerogative powers conferred upon Parliament is the right to make treaties. However these treaties are not directly effective on British individuals, so that where a treaty contains provisions giving rights and duties to an individual, he cannot place reliance upon the treaty until it is substantially incorporated into the law of the United Kingdom, by an Act of Parliament. This acts as a curb to the enforcement of European Community Law, so that to a certain extent, a degree of sovereignty is retained. Yet, this is not as advantageous as it may at first appear, for there exists a general judicial presumption that Parliament does not intend to legislate contrary to European Community Law.
		Personally, I think that although the integration of Britain into Europe will be beneficial in so many matters such as freedom of transportation, movement, work and many other realms, there are also many disadvantages in store, including the loss of sovereignty to a certain extent. Although the British Parliament will continue to regulate the acts or omissions of individuals on a personal basis, for example in Criminal Law, its freedom to legislate in the domain of public law will be severely restricted. Not only will Parliament be obliged to enforce Community Law, but also any later statutes passed by the British Parliament will either be construed in the light of Community provisions or declared invalid.
		To conclude, it is feasible to imply that the sovereignty of Britain will be impaired in many ways, although only within the sphere of Community Law prevailing over national law. In other senses the sovereignty of Britain will be safeguarded for Parliament will still reign supreme within the United Kingdom.




<ICLE-BR-SUR-0017.3>
		Although Europe is a much discussed topic, with talks about subsidies and a single European currency, the concept of a united Europe is still difficult for the average person to visualise. Perhaps because they are worried and uncertain as to their rôle and Britain's in this new state, they prefer to believe that it is simply not possible or even probable.
		Steps have already been taken, however, towards this goal. The 1972 European Communities Act and the Treaty of Rome have as their aims the eventual unification of the nation states. Hence the fact that there is no clause in the Treaty detailing how a member may leave. The treaty bound Britain to certain measures which have already curtailed our sovereignty. For example, the European Commission (an unelected body) can issue resolutions which do not even need to be incorporated into the domestic law of each member state - they are directly applicable. How has this affected our sovereignty ? Until 1986 each member had the power of veto so that no new law could be passed without full agreement. In a way this did not affect our sovereignty. The Single European Act of 1986, however, introduced majority voting. It is now possible, therefore, that the UK opposes proposed legislation but that is voted through by the other states and becomes law here without our consent. This is obviously an infringement of our sovereignty already.
		A unified Europe, though, could be expected to have a more representative legislative body, although there is no guarantee that we will not be in a minority then. Perhaps Europe will be organised on a federal system as a "United States of Europe", each state with limited legislative authority for its own affairs and one supreme house to co-ordinate foreign policy and the like. We have already begun to integrate our trade, and we have free movement of labour within the community.
		The question of currency is a more vexed one for most people, who see the prospect of saying goodbye to sterling much harder to accept than the European Commission imposing laws on us. Although this feeling is perfectly natural, it will not long outlast the introduction of a new currency. Those of us familiar with sterling will feel a loss, but the next generation will be oblivious to it, just as I have no nostalgia for the sixpence or crown.
		Certain other aspects of Britain would be more difficult to change though. Our legal system in this country is a common law one, while most countries on the continent have civil law systems. This brings about a different attitude to statutes and written law in Britain as well as a completely different approach to its treatment in court. Our law is not codified, and much has not yet even made the transition from being a common law wrong to a statutory offence. This confusing state of affairs horrifies our European partners, but it would be a lengthy process to change it, and one that would face much opposition.
		There is also the question of where the Queen would fit in. She is our nominal??? (unreadable) head of state (although she is largely prevented from using her powers), but it is doubtful whether or not Europeans would be willing to accept her as their monarch as well - the Spanish already have a monarch, as do the Dutch. While she would apparently have no place in a single European state, would Britain be prepared to sacrifice her in order to join ?
		Many constitutional problems still block our road to Europe, as well as people's attitudes - we in Britain rather enjoy being an island and not attached to the continent - witness the opposition to the Channel Tunnel. It is impossible to say whether we will eventually be willing to sacrifice the rest of our sovereignty. Maybe if we move towards Europe slowly we will one day become accustomed to the idea.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0018.3>
	Britain as an island, has always experienced a type of isolation which no other European country has. Weary of invasion or interference from outside, this type of mentality can be seen amongst the British even today. Therefore, when discussing the idea of a single Europe, the British feel under threat.
	As the year 1992 comes closer, "a new pawn for Europe", there is still a great deal of uncertainty regarding what will actually happen. In Britain, there has been little emphasis on the involvement for everybody in a single Europe. Instead, the Press has tended to focus on a new role for business people, students, holidaymakers even, but not really, the average person on the street.
	In my opinion, a single Europe will entail a loss of sovereignty, to some degree, for all the countries of Europe. But the extent to which this happen depends on the role and the power of the european Parliament. There are already many proposals under way for breaking down the frontiers between countries and perhaps, a single currency, so this of course would help promote a European identity. However, if the European Parliament plays a role similar to that of today, that is, power to enforce some legislation, but acting more as an "advisory committee" for the Member parliaments, then there will not be a great loss of sovereignty. The breaking down of barriers, etc, will be seen as merely an extension of the E.E.C. and nothing more. But if the majority of legislation were to come from Brussels, then I think the British would feel a great loss of sovereignty and even resentment.
	Obviously, a united Europe is not going to erase centuries of culture to form one identifiable "European culture"; but this might always be a worry for the British, (and probably, for other countries too). Thus a loss of power for the British Parliament would probably be seen as the first step of this "merging together". Nevertheless, one should not forget the role of the citizens. If they do not want to "become European" then they will not do so. They would have to respect the European Parliament, but in every other way life could carry on as normal. It goes without saying that they would want to take advantage of, say, better trade agreements between countries, cheaper holidays etc, but I can not envisage a mass exodus across the Channel. 
	It is too adventurous and utopian to picture a single Europe, ??? somewhat along the lines of the United States of America. In this day and age though, any increase in co-operation between nations has to be welcomed. In order for this to happen successfully, each nation must experience a loss of sovereignty to some degree, since Nation states obsessed by their own singularity can often become involved in conflict with other nations. As far as Europe is concerned, I feel that some legislation can be decided upon for all the Member states, but at the same time there should be "home legislation" where the different countries' parliaments deal with specific problems which that country alone experiences.
	A single Europe entailing a loss of sovereignty for Britain, in order to promote a European sovereignty is acceptable, but national identity and culture must not be wiped out in the process.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0019.3>
	"But we'll lose our sovereignty !" is the cry of the opponents of European unity not only in Britain but throughout the 12 member states of the EC. On this island at the very edge of Europe however we do have a particularly low reputation for fighting change and for general xenophobia. What are we afraid of ?
	Perhaps the most unpopular EC policy in this country is the Common Agricultural Policy Regulations about the amount of food we are allowed to produce as a country have been portrayed on television as farmers forced to slaughter their livestock because of low quotas and large amounts of milk going off as farmers are not allowed to sell it. If you mention the common agricultural policy to an Englishman most of them will immediately think of the butter mountains wine lakes and surpluses of meat. The positive elements of the policy do not get as much publicity as the negative ones.
	So the EC is widely viewed in Britain as an institution which interferes with and disrupts the British economy and way of life rather than enhancing it.
	The idea of "sovereignty" is an old established term in the world of international relations and is generally accepted to mean that while other states may have a right to have some say in a way that a state  runs its foreign affairs, the domestic affairs of that state are the concern of that state alone and no other state should interfere. The military interpretation of sovereignty is not as relevant in the context of this argument. It is the fact that the EC is seen as interfering in the economic affairs of each country that causes so much discontent. Political sovereignty seems only to be important to the general public in as much as it involves control of the economy. The reasoning of the opponents of European unity is that the "Brussels bureaucrats" when making policy decisions will have more their interests at heart than those of any particular country.
	This is the short-sighted view. The broader and more long-term European citizen will ?move? the tendency in the world economy towards global integration. The more long term looking European citizen will also see the rise of global problems ; poverty pollution and population growth and will see that these now mean that the domestic policies on matters such as the environment may affect other nearby countries as well. The more long term looking European citizen will also beg in to question whether sovereignty is a valuable commodity any more or whether it is more valuable to lose it in an age of increasing global dependency for survival. Military independence or sovereignty is very important in my view and a common defence or foreign policy for Europe is and should remain a long way in the future.
	Britain at the moment has little to lose and much to gain from economic unity and those Britons who shy away from further "loss of sovereignty" are perhaps confusing sovereignty with national identity or character. Surely it is possible though to co-operate on areas of policy in Europe and yet not to become over similar in cultures ? A strong Europe may even help to retain national identities against he global pull of Americanisation. Let us hope so.
<ICLE-BR-SUR-0020.3>
	In order to determine whether Britain, or more accurately speaking the United Kingdom, would lose sovereignty in the event of the unification of Europe, it is first necessary to discuss the nature of sovereignty in this country at the moment, and to see how it might be able to lose it in the future. Sovereignty, originally invested in the Crown, today stems by convention from Parliament, which is traditionally believed to be legislatively supreme. As there is no written, or codified constitution in the U.K., which has a higher status than that of ordinary law, Parliament can theoretically make or unmake any law whatsoever. In the words of the known jurist Dicey : <"     ">. All this shows that, by the orthodox, traditional approach, as it is considered impossible to bind subsequent governments as to the procedure or manner and form of legislation, it is impossible for entrenchment of statute to occur. Unification would by implication involve a universal european adoption of common laws, in order to provide compatibility between the individual constituent nation states, and in order for those laws to be recognized by the courts of this country, these laws would need to be adopted in the U.K. in the ordinary way, ie. by enactment of Act of Parliament. Those adopting the orthodox viewpoint would see this as a "loan" of sovereignty rather than a "loss", for they would claim that by the theory of parliamentary legislative supremacy the U.K. might seize back this sovereignty by repealing the european statutes, in the ordinary way.
	It could be claimed that the U.K. made its first steps to unification when it joined the European Community (E.C.) by the enactment of the European Communities Act 1972. If one considers whether, by adopting this Act, the U.K. has lost some sovereignty, or  ????? "loaned" it, it will be possible to predict what effect subsequent legislation pertaining to the formation of "a single Europe" would have on the sovereignty of this country.
	Several reasons have been put forward as to why the European Communities Act 1972 cannot be normally repealed, and that the U.K. has lost sovereignty. It has been suggested than when the U.K. joined the E.C., a new order had been created. Within that new order Parliament is no longer all powerful and cannot amend or repeal any statute by which that order is established. The European Communities Act, it is argued, is such a constituent statute, and is accordingly ?????. This would mean that if a domestic statute were enacted, conflicting with a provision in the European Communities Act 1972, than the provision in the latter (ie. 1972 Act) would prevail.
	It has also been argued that by ?????????? rights and power to the community in accordance with Treaty provisions ?????????? states have limited their sovereign rights in such a way as to make it impossible to withdraw unilaterally. Their is no evidence, though, that the courts would accept this view. It would only hold true if the courts only recognised as valid that legislation which accords with our obligations under community law. Up to now, if there has been conflicting legislation, the judges have interpreted it so as to reach a compromise. In practice there has been lack of precedent for challenges to the validity of an Act of Parliament. The situation, therefore, is not clearly known.
	Although it can be said that there is a constitutional convention that the government does not enact conflicting legislation on purpose, by implication of legal theory there is absolutely no right imposed on Parliament to do so. If still, in Dicey's words, "<    >". As this European Act is not entrenched, and the sovereignty may be seized back at any time, it may be predicted that if the U.K. hands its sovereignty over to a greater extent at a time of total unification, it too may take back sovereignty, according to the doctrine of parliamentary legislative supremacy. From a legal standpoint, the only way sovereignty can be lost would be for the U.K Parliament to extinguish itself, after surrendering its powers to a new written constitution, with entrenched provisions, eg; membership of EEC and unification Acts. As complete constitutional reformation is unlikely, I  submit that it is not legally possible for sovereignty to be lost, and that in the event of a single Europe, sovereignty might be "borrowed", but in no way would it be lost.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0021.3>
	As a British student of modern languages, having lived and worked in Paris for a year, and become acquainted with the  French culture, I might be expected to have a more "European" perspective than the average British person.  Yet if my experience taught me anything it is that issues of national identity are very emotionally charged.  At a conscious level, I support the idea of a united Europe; yet surprisingly often during my year in France I would find myself at dinner parties embroiled in a heated debate over the channel tunnel and the impact of 1992.  I frequently surprised myself by the vehemence of my defence of "other" British people who were nervous about the whole prospect.
	More than other European nation, I believe the British have a particular attachment tot the idea of the nation's being sovereign over itself. The French for example already seem to mistrust even power at a national level, if this might take power away from individual citizens (perhaps a legacy from the French Revolution's ideals).  Other European nations are divided down into smaller federal regions, as is the case in Switzerland.  In fact Britain has been one of the few European countries not to favour an electoral system of proportional representation. This implies the British prefer the idea of a single government, united in policy, reflecting the interests of a supposedly united nation.  Of course such a vision is a false one.  Nevertheless, such an image makes any loss of sovereignty to such a nation more keenly felt. The current and recent British governments have been at odds with the more common political stance in Europe, the British one being right-wing and individualistic.  In particular Margaret Thatcher and Nicolas Ridley (rather tactlessly, in his case) opposed a complete alignment with Europe.  However I believe this difference in political stance is a less important factor in the British unease about 1992 than is the more deeprooted notion of Britain's being self-contained.
	In just one year, the original aims of the 1957 Treaty of Rome will be fulfilled, cementing European unity. This will have undoubted economic benefits, freeing both trade and the movement of people across boundaries. But perhaps the most significant change is that decisions  - over laws, human rights policy and defence issues -  will be taken collectively, not individually. Three bodies will have ultimate authority in shaping the law, - the European Commission, the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament. Only the last of these bodies will be directly elected by British and other European citizens. What is acceptable, just and fair behaviour in Britain will be decided in Brussels and Strasbourg. It is in the very nature of the 1992 objectives that Britain along with other European nations will lose its individual sovereignty. The question is whether this loss is a good or a bad thing. This depends on whether we feel that a larger number of human beings are likely to judge more fairly and wisely than a smaller group. If ourselves are part of the smaller group, we may prefer to trust our own judgement over that of some remote body, however large. However, I feel that on the whole human rights will be better safeguarded by greater centralisation, provided individual nations have a say in this centralised body.
	Greater centralisation will inevitably result in contested decisions, and in both winners and losers among the member nations. Yet there are always winners and losers, even when a nation is supposedly sovereign over itself. Indeed, the whole concept of a nation's being "sovereign" is rather misleading. At present, Britain is not really sovereign over itself; the sovereignty belongs to the particular government in power at any given moment.  
 


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0022.3>
	The mentality of the British is very much that of an Island race. Ever since 1066, the last time that any foreign people successfully conquered British soil, the English (and later, the "British") have always been the conquerors. In the early Middle Ages, around the times of Edward I, II and III, the English Kings ruled large areas of France, and later in history during the reign of Queen Victoria the British Empire came into existence. With the granting then of independance to the colonies Britain was restricting her sovereignty, for which special Acts had to be passed to enable her to do this, but Britain has always retained absolute sovereignty over our own destiny. We have always been our own people, never accepting any higher power (NB we broke away from the power of the Catholic church, and the authority of Rome in Tudor times). But now we are faced with the "threat" or the "opportunity" of Europe - the actuality of being an integral part of a greater "being", part of a Single Europe with the many advantages it brings, but also the disadvantages, such as the loss of sovereign power.
		As can be shown by the development of many, if not most of the individual states, much grater things can be achieved if small communities are brought together, to pool their common resources and form a single sovereign state which common aims, target and by necessity : laws. Economically, working collectively is the best way to achieve highest productivity. Different countries achieve this in different ways, ranging from a state system in which the institutions are very centralised, to a confederal system in which only certain decesions  are made by the central body. The central body under each system has a varying amount of power given to it ; each constituent communities retains a varying amount of power under the differing system. A "Single Europe" could follow any of these patterns, although so far it is headed towards a very lose form of confederacy, and is most likely to remain that way.
	If the Communities of Europe are to achieve highest productivity, and harmonisation, the cooperation and coordination are required. Certain policies, particularly fiscal and monetary policies, need to be aligned for the system to function ; laws would be needed to regulate activity in other areas, as regarding health throughout the community, in order to achieve the ultimately best solution for the people. In order to achieve this, the best way is through an independant body which places the aims and needs of the community as a whole above that of each individual member state. This body would need power with which it can act, and this giving of power would by defenition involve a loss of power to the member states, for they would be obliged to accept the decisions of the superior body. In this way there would be a loss of sovereignty.
	The question remains though : is this a total loss of power in these areas ? Can Britain ever regain control of the power it has given away ? Treaties have been signed and ratified, international law is involved, but does this mean that the UK parliament has absolutely no power to revoke the European Communities Act of 1972 and withdraw from the Community ? When it comes down to it an individual is an individual with his own mind and is able to get out of a contract if he so choses : the UK is an individual state with its own government - could we not withdraw if we so chose ? We chose to enter, do we not have the choice to leave and retain our own sovereignty. After all there is nothing to force us to remain (although if it came to it, economic sanctions could be pretty damaging), but unlike in the USSR, there is no "European Army" to invade our shores, to dominate and suppress us and force us to remain part of the European "Union".  



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0023.3>
		The moves towards a single Europe have many far reaching political economic and social consequences for the Member States. The diversity of the cultures, languages and political structures present in these nations mean that unification will lead to complex problems on national and international levels. One of the most contentious issues is the pace at which reforms should be initiated and carried out. There is a conflict between federalist nations like Germany and those who wish for a more loosely structured Europe and slower reforms, which seems to be the view of our present government in Britain.
	The fears of European federalism which are expressed by many of our leading politicians and legal figures stem from the idea that the sovereignty of our Parliament is paramount. This view of the legislative supremacy was expressed by Dicey who wrote that "...quote...". Problems arose with Britains accession to the European Communities in 1972. By this Act Britain was argued to have limited its legislative competence in certain fields were it had handed its sovereignty to Community Institutions. However the doctrine of parliamentary legislative supremacy meant that the British Courts were under a duty to apply the legislation made by the British Parliament. This has led to two interpretations of Community Law with the European Court of Justice consistently ruling that Community legislation must be applied uniformly throughout the member states.
	However the argument goes beyond these doctrinal questions. Many people are worried about the lack of democratic control over the Community decision making process and the voting systems used to enact legislation. Another problem is the intention of the Community organs to strengthen the economic and social cohesion of its Member States with a view to promoting the development of Europe as a whole, and in particular reducing the disparities between  the various States and in particular those with the weakest economies, for example Italy. This means legislation must be adopted to further these aims and this means that by joining the Community Britain has undertaken to implement necessary legislation within its sphere of influence. This obviously means that Britain has limited its legislative sovereignty in some areas. However it is the impact that the Single Market will have on British economy. It is argued within the community that economic and monetary union is a natural complement to the Single European Act and that the full benefit of the complement of the international market will only be felt if business, industry and the citizens are able to use a common currency. This  is resisted by many of those who fear we are being led into a period of "Europeanism" and that Britain will lose her identity. However it is important to remember the beneficial effects that involvement in the community will surely have such as performance and growth, on price stability and on employment. Thus it can be seen that while fears of a loss of sovereignty may be well founded the beneficial aspects must not be underestimated and that we may be entering , under the influence of the community into a more equal political, social and economic Europe.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0024.3>
	The British public is by now familiar with the subject of Europe and 1992, they are less familiar however with the Treaty of Rome and the principles set down after the war in an effort by France and Germany to collaborate on certain industrial matters in order to avoid conflict between them. Most people see the advantages of what a single Europe has to offer. And why not ? after all it means a freer movement around Europe, access to more jobs, education, markets and so on. However when it comes to the subject of sovereignty, there are those who lift a hesitant finger. But is everyone clear on what sovereignty means ? Sovereignty is the effective control over a defined territory and people, it must be recognised by other sovereign states, but most important of all a sovereign state recognises no higher authority.
	Taking these prerequisites into account, there is no question about the first two , but one only has to look at what is happening to recognise a clear erosion of sovereignty on the third point. On economic matters, I could not really see what the debate was about on whether to have a central European Bank and how, as far as I am concerned the Bundesbank does a very good job of it at the moment. When Germany decides to increase or decrease its interest rates the other countries have to respond whether it is in their interests or not. The present negotiations about further integration, although unavoidable due to the aims of signed treaties will mean that 11 Downing Street will have less room for manoeuvre.
	The 12 member states have different systems of government, some like Britain are parliamentary, Presidential like france and other distribute power among its Länder like in Germany, but the people are familiar with their institutions and the popular or unpopular decisions they might make, but some decisions are already being taken in Brussels from pollution to food control legislations, some of which the British electorate had nothing to do with, all of which seems rather un-DEMOCRATIC (and I use the term in its correct meaning) that is, taking power away from the people. But what is worse when we talk about decisions being made in "Brussels" or by the "Commission", we talk about them as if they were omniscient even omnipotent entities, but the people running them are ordinary human beings capable of mistakes and although sharing in Western ideology they all have their own brand of national ideology which guides them, so one should not accept decisions to be reached easily or for them to be favourable. All of which is further complicated by recent events in Eastern Europe, the long term results of which no one is sure of. How will these new countries be integrated, who will end up paying most of the bill ? Mrs Thatcher saw that as a sign to slow down the process, the other members as a sign to press ahead, and they did.
	The events of Eastern Europe have also led to the question of defense. No longer having to rely on US support, the Europeans want to form a force of their own, but common sense says that there will be a conflict of interests at one point or another. Would an all European force go to defend the Falklands ? The only certainty is that the British government will once again have less room for manoeuvre. Perhaps I have been watching too many government political broadcasts, but it seems to me that Britain has lost some sovereignty for it has to obey a higher authority on certain issues. However unlike the Labour Party, the train for 1992 cannot make a U-turn and Britain must make the most of its circumstances and try harder to get into a stronger position.




<ICLE-BR-SUR-0025.3>
	The question of a single Europe and whether this implies a loss of sovereignty for Britain has been one of considerable debate for some time. Last November, one of the principle reasons underlying Mrs Thatcher's resignation was her negative stance against increasing involvement in Europe. Her view were not shared by many of her party colleagues who, on the contrary, were conscious of an all too pressing need for Britain to play an active role in a united Europe.
	 January 1993 is expected to witness the creation of the single European Market. The aims of such a union are essentially economic. All trade barriers will be broken down so as to encourage and promote free trade between the countries of europe, in the belief that increased cooperation will lead to increased productivity. In order to facilitate trade between the different nations many people are in favour of adopting a common currency, namely the ECU. This in turn would also have to lead to the formation of a central European bank.
	A single Europe, whilst primarily being created as an economic union, will necessarily have implications on a political level. The European Parliament of course already exists, but many people envisage that in a single Europe it will play a more important role  and its power will be extended, possibly surpassing those exercised by individual national governments in Europe and overriding decisions made by them.
	For supporters of a single Europe the question of whether it will entail a loss of British sovereignty is not a primary issue. They would argue first and foremost that Britain cannot  afford to go it alone and that it is in her interests to join forces with the rest of Europe.
	Critics of European union, on the other hand, are afraid that increased cooperation in both the economic and political spheres will give rise to a European superpower which will undermine the sovereignty of Britain in these fields.
	Personally, I am in favour of a single Europe to the extent that I believe Britain can no longer afford to stand alone in opposition to the other countries in Europe, all of which have long been in favour of such a union. Moreover, closer cooperation will undoubtedly be favourable and bring about increased productivity and prosperity. However, I feel hesitant at the prospect of a common currency, at least until the time when such a move might become necessary, as this would certainly mean the loss of British sovereignty from an economic point of view. Yet I am even more against the idea of listening to political dictates from Brussels. If the powers of the European Parliament are extended to the point that it has authority over national governments our whole democratic political structure will be in grave danger and Britain will assuredly lose its political sovereignty.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0026.3>
	The various measures that are being taken to create a united Europe will surely have wide-reaching effects, but it is difficult to predict how they will affect the sovereignty of individual countries. Any powers granted to a European government will surely have to be offset by a loss to national government.
	The European Monetary System for example provides a more rigid structure for Europe than individual governments will have been used to. To a certain extent, this system takes the instruments of monetary policy out of the hands of national government. It cannot for example devalue its currency beyond a certain narrow band, as it may have done before when attempting to improve domestic industries competitiveness, faced with international competition.
	The loss of customs barriers within Europe in 1992 will, in the eyes of many people, threaten Britain's sovereignty. Internal barriers will be removed in favour of a common barrier to protect Europe as a whole. Doubts have already been cast on some countries'ability to prevent for example illegal immigration and drug trafficking. This form of unification will affect Britain especially, since Britain's position in Europe has always been made slightly different by the fact that it is an island. Steps towards unification (following closely the building of the Channel Tunnel) will be seen in many quarters as encroachments on this "special" situation.
	The measure that will probably cause the most consternation amongst the general public of Britain will be the European Currency Unit (if it is ever widely implemented). This would affect everyone in Britain, so it would probably be the most widely opposed move. (People may not notice more important edicts from Brussels wearing away their government's power, but they will certainly notice what's in their pockets).
	A single Europe will surely mean a loss of sovereignty for Britain, assuming we take sovereignty to mean simply freedom for a country's national government to act in all three of its branches, (executive, legislative and judiciary) without outside interference (in this case, from the European parliament and other bodies).
	However, this is not to say that we shouldn't strive to achieve it. A united Europe could be advantageous for everybody. This is not only an economic argument, all European countries can benefit from a reduction in protection of domestic industries by their government. Cohesive Common Markets and Free Trade Areas help promote competitiveness and efficiency. But also, we could perhaps see the end of the ugly events and discrimination that often arise because of an over-developed sense of nationalism and patriotism. It is probably true to say that British citizens are amongst the worst in Europe when it comes to being insular. A spirit of "Europeanism" hasn't really been established yet.
	Britain will certainly lose some sovereignty to Europe, but it is debatable whether Britain has been free of foreign influence in the post-war years. The USA in particular has exercised great influence on the country and sapped its sovereignty. (In the cold war years, Britain seemed to be a pawn in America's overall strategy). Its involvement in NATO had much the same effect. Is Britain merely exchanging one master for another ?


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0027.3>
	With 1992 now only a year away, the question of what a Single Europe will mean for Britain becomes increasingly relevant.
	I firmly believe that the advent of 1992 will result in a loss of sovereignty for Britain. This loss need not however be negative. In fact, in political, economic and defence terms I feel this  realocation of resources can and will be very positive. Whilst to a certain extent I may be guilty of having an island mentality, I wouldn't go as far as to say Britain is in danger of handing all control over to faceless beaurocrats in Brussels or Strasbourg.
	Throughout the world a wind of change is apparent, but especially so in Europe. This process will continue and Europe the rest of the world will evolue with or without the participation of Britain in this process.
	It is my belief that Britain must be involved in the decision making which will eventually decide the new world order. However to be fully involved, sacrifices have to be made. Such sacrifices will involve certain aspects of our sovereignty. In relenquishing and thus centralising certain powers, the aim is not to diminish the strength of individual nations but to increase the overall impact of Europe on the world stage.
	As amply demonstrated by recent events in the Gulf, European cooperation in the field of defence can  be both impressive and effective. Whilst I would be reluctant to hand over all control to defence to any central body. I can see a future for some form of European rapid reaction force. Whilst to an extent crippling defence costs could be cut this would not necessarily lead to a reduction in the size of defence available.
	In political terms, regardless of legislation, Britain like the rest of Europe is becoming increasingly cosmopolitan in terms of the population composition. The North Sea will increasingly come to represent a mere puddle as people move between countries. I feel it is important for Britain to join fully with its European partners to adapt to these changes in demography. Politically we are moving closer together. Possible problems should be studied and solved if possible before they happen.
	E.R.M. is already upon us but in this area I feel Britain should be especially careful. Whilst not pretending to fully understand this system I do know that no system can lower interest rates, and inflation while raising growth, with the possible exception of the Magic Circle. In the area of the single currency, again I feel this is inevitable. What is important is to base this currency on the strong currencies within the EEC as opposed to an average based system.
	To conclude I would say a single Europe is already happening and that it will continue to do so is guaranteed. Britain must not concern itself with loss of sovereignty but gain of the European equivalent. If we miss the boat I think we will drawn before the next boat comes.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0028.3>
	After the devastations of the second World War closer cooperation has existed among European States on all levels. First of all trade treaties were brought into existence between various countries. This culminated into the signing of the EEC treaty in Rome and which over the years has attracted an increasing number of members. At the present day there are 12 members. In the future this number will perhaps expand due to the events in Eastern Europe, whereby more countries are turning towards a market economy.Negotiations have been intensive over the years between the various members, especially over the actual basis of the union and over how much power should be given to the European Communities'Institutions, which have been set up. These include the Council of Ministers, made up by various minister of the memberstates, the Commission, the European Parliament made up by MEP's, who are democratically elected from memberstates and the European court of Justice. The           for the European Community will be the year 1992 when the internal market will be completed and trade barriers lifted and there will be common policies on social level.
	This closer union has also led to concern though. People are questioning whether this will lead to a loss of sovereignty for the memberstates. First of all what is sovereignty. Sovereignty means a state has territorial integrity, people and government, which is recognised by other countries in the world. This government makes and exercises policies without interference from any other country on all areas, economic, domestic and foreign policies. It is obvious that the memberstates of the European Community's sovereignty is still intact. Countries are still making independent decisions. But European law, decided by Council and European Parliament does in some cases preside over national law, and is made to apply throughout Europe, especially concerning social matters. This will be necessary if there is to be an internal market in 1992. Concerning some matters the same laws will have to apply throughout Europe to make this market effective. Legislation takes place in the European institutions by ministers and MEP's from all sorts of countries, so a certain loss of sovereignty is involved for Britain. Concern is therefore understandable. On the other hand when it comes to vital issues, for example defense and the economy and the actual running of the country it is still the national governments that decide. There is wide debate going on about how much power the European Community should have. This debate is especially heated at the moment, because a treaty should be signed by memberstates in december at Maastricht, concerning the extent of political union.
	There are various opinions concerning the loss of sovereignty. Some people are in favour of extending powers of the European Communities's institutions, whereas others are opposed fiercely. The attitude of British politicians has especially caused a lot of controversy, and caused fierce debate within the government circles itself about what position Britain should take and which last year ended in Margaret Thatcher being replaced as Prime Minister, due to her opposition towards European union. The British government still remains cautious on the extent of political union, fearing that policies and decisions will be implemented by European Communities's institutions, overriding the national government.
	Personally, I think there will be some loss of sovereignty for all member states. This is inevitable for the European single market to operate effectively in face of competition from other countries in the world, like for example the United States and Japan. Concerning vital issues like the running of the country, and foreign policy, the government should continue to have the last say and not let the European Communities's institutions decide.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0029.3>
	The European Community is the grouping of 12 sovereign European States whose intention is to develop closer economic and political cooperation. It's intention is to encourage greater freedom of movement of goods and also services, capital and the workforce.
	The competition for trade is in modern times so great that Britain has no choice but to join Europe in order to increase the market for its goods. Britain has been recognised as having a particular skill in the areas of banking and insurance. European market will give us the opportunity to use this skill in a far wider market. The creation of one European commercial market will also benefit the consumer since a homogenisation of standards is also in the process of being introduced, hopefully to the highest common denominator.
	The European does not serve only as a useful trade association, however, for environmental problems can be tackled more effectively if the European community confronts such problems together. Co-operation between the communities police forces will assist in overcoming the problems of drug-smuggling and terrorism. The common defence policy of such a large area of Europe would also be beneficial and possibly less costly if the member states pooled their resources.
	 However some loss of national sovereignty will inevitably occur. The single European Act was designed to speed-up the decision making of certain institutions. The act meant that member governments had to be committed to greatest co-operation and joint action in the areas of foreign, social and environmental policy thus leaving less room for differences of opinion among the members. The decisions of the European Court of Justice already take precedence over national law, which can be seen as a major infringement of our national sovereignty. More participation in the election of members of the European Parliament would help to elect those strongest to promote British interests in Europe.
	The question is how much sovereignty is Britain prepared to lose and do the benefits of belonginging to a single Europe outweigh the disadvantages. A certain loss of sovereignty has already been felt and in the next few years this will increase. As far as the immediate future is concerned a certain loss of sovereignty is the price we have to pay for material progress.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0030.3>
	European nations have over time been linked together both in war and in Peace. These countries have since been moving closer together on more institutional lines. One such demonstration of this has been the forming of the European Community, made up from the European Coal and Steel Community, the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Economic Community.
	In 1987, the European Community adopted the single European Act in which the member countries committed themselves to the realisation of a single internal european market by 1992. This act has raised questions in Britain as to whether or not it will result in a loss of sovereignty for Britain.
	The lifting of trade barriers between the member states will enable the free movement of trade. This economic union will not really create a loss of sovereignty for Britain, as it will merely aid the exchange of goods throughout Europe. However, the fears are that the act will lead to decisions being imposed on Britain since an important element of it is the commitment to majority rule rather than the previously common practice of consensus decision making in the council of ministers. This would result in the ability of individual nations to veto key decisions being restricted.
	British sovereignty could be in danger if this union led to a European government imposing its authority on Britain. A centralised European government would inhibit Britains decision-making ability. The recent incident of the european Parliament imposing its ideals on Britain points out the authoritative principles to which it may be forced to accept if such a strong central body was created. It believed that Britain ought to halt construction on the Channel Tunnel link due to environmental concerns, however this action seemed to be an imposition on Britains sovereignty as an external body was trying to tell the country what to do. If the European Community was to bring in a single currency, Britain may be deprived of its sovereignty since it will lose its individuality, but more importantly would forget its bargaining position on the foreign exchange. Currency decisions would be made by a central body which Britain would have to accept. 
	If a single Europe should lead to British troops fighting on behalf of Europe instead of its own nation, most sovereignty would be lost. It would mean a supranational force fighting as a whole, with no real difference between them - it would not be a case of "one force, one nation".
	However, the state would still exist as an island and people will always feel that they were british due to their roots and history. This even if linked physically to Europe via the Channel Tunnel, Britain would still see itself as a separate country.
	I personally believe that Britain will not lose its sovereignty if the union is based on an economic level of free trade between nations. However, if a strong European government was created which made important decisions for Britain, such as currency settlements and the running of its foreign policy, this would mean that Britain would no longer be an individual state with power to make its own decisions, and would hence lose its sovereignty.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0031.3>
	On becoming a member of the EEC and signing the 1972 Treaty of Accession the UK had to enact the provisions of the treaty to make our accession part of English law.  Simply signing the treaty meant members were already pooling their sovereign rights in certain areas.  Resistance to joining from inside Britain and from inside the Community itself was centred around the argument that Britain was already enjoying favourable trading conditions with the U.S.A. and with the countries of the Commonwealth.  As the EEC assumes ever greater proportions the debate, particularly in Britain, is centred around a potential loss of sovereignty as the member states look to integrate further.

	Parliament is no longer the sole source of English law.  As Britain continues to sign treaties, the regulations that are entailed in these treaties become directly applicable to the U.K. - that is without the interference of Parliament.  The Single European Act has given rise to more majority voting in the European instititions which means it becomes increasingly possible to introduce legislation in the U.K. to which no one here has agreed.  Certain rules of community law regarding rights and duties are directly effective.  It has been made quite clear that the courts are to apply the rules as if they were Acts of Parliament.

	It is increasingly the case that Parliament legislates so the end result or the legislation is as desired by the Community.  The Community was quick enough to remind the Italians that a new legal order had been created and that pieces of community law would be directly applicable.  In short the community was reminding the Italians of the degree of transfer of sovereignty.

	However, the current European writer Collins while maintaining his support for community law and discretion is in favour of the power of Parliament to repeal the 72 Act that made Britain a member.  Lord Denning too agrees that if Britain wished expressly to repeal the E.C. Act then we could and would do just that.  The present situation can be referred to as Parliamentary self denial.  That is to say for the moment it accepts the output of Brussels but as Lord Scarmann reminds us the E.C. has force of law in Britain only because Parliament says so and he too is of the opinion that if Britain should for whatever reason want to disassociate with the Community then we could.

	A thought provoking conclusion to end with would be to ask will the European Community overtake the pre-eminence of Parliament just as Parliament came to upstage the power of the monarchy?

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0032.3>

	There has been such a lot of talk about a Single Europe in recent years that it is hard to believe that it will be upon us very soon.  Now that it is a reality, and not just a probability, the question in the minds of many Britons is indeed : Will this mean a loss of sovereignty for Britain or the birth of a nation?

	Firstly, a positive approach.  Looking at things from an economic perspective, this is not a problem.  The benefits in terms of cost-cutting owing to doing things once, instead of twelve times, will be enormous.  Firms, because of being able to pool their resources, will be able to devote more time to research and development, and thus products will improve.  Europe will therefore be a nation to be reckoned with as regards competition.

	To look at things on a more individual level, every member of the new Single Europe's standard of living should increase.  A greater potential of ideas from a greater number of experts will, in theory, result in more knowledgeable and better-informed individuals.  Simplicity is one of the Commission's key aims, with the idea that if things are simpler and more easy for everyone to understand people will be happier, get on better.  If this is so, they should also work better.  Ideally then, there should be more equality, less crime, greater productivity and greater economic growth.

	On the other hand, will this Single Europe mean a loss of sovereignty for Britain?  It must be remembered that not only does Britain have a small population compared to the majority of the other member states, but it is an island - which none of the others are.  Why should this matter?  Well, Britain has quite a history and therefore a fair number of traditions.  It is possible that it could become engulfed in the new Single Europe and lose its identity.  Britons (especially those from older generations) may then feel "lost" and that they do not really "belong" any more.  The new Single Europe may be too new and unknown for them to make their allegiance to it.  Then there is the question as to whether all this idealism really will work.  Will there be greater prosperity, better-informed, happier citizens, or will this never come off because of politicians being unable to agree on policies?  Britain, although small, is more often than not in the fore of international matters, taking a definite stance on what it considers to be right.  Has it then not got quite a lot at stake, its character at least, in integrating itself into this Single Europe?

	No one would dispute that this is a difficult question.  The fact remains however that next year (in 1992) there is going to be a Single Europe.  This, as everyone is well aware, is not going to be achieved with ease, but the more tolerant every member state is of each other, the more successful the Single Europe will be.  It is up to Britain therefore to accept this fact and to show an example by leading the way as regards tolerancy.  Then we will all be able to look at the future in a more positive way.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0033.3>	
	At present, the issue of whether Britain should become more closely integrated within the European Community, be it either to a lesser extent with the establishment of a single, common currency, the E.C.U., in each of the member states, or to a greater extent with the complete Political unification of the "Twelve" into the so-called United States of Europe, is very controversial.  It is such a political powderkeg, especially for the Conservative Party - which seems to have divided itself into the two distinct factions one for and one against closer integration - that it led to the resignation of Margaret Thatcher who attempted to "bully" her Cabinet and Parliamentary Party into supporting her undoubtly "Europhobic" views.

	In my opinion, a single Europe in a political sense would both be disadvantageous for Britain but also unworkable because of the mix of opinions and cultures that the E.C. contains.  This would mean that there would probably not be a large enough number of M.E.P.s of a particular persuasion for a single group, be it Socialist, Centre Right or Christian Democratic to hold a stable majority.  This would lead to coalitions being formed, out of necessity, across ideological boundaries which, as we have seen recently with Italy and Belgium, would lead to unstable and ineffectual governments.  A perfect example of both the effect of coalition governments and also the lack of agreement of E.C. members at the moment on such crucial issues as Defence and Foreign (ie extra-European) Policy could be seen during the Gulf War : Britain was running low on stocks of ammunition for certain types of guns and artillary in the build up to the launch of Operation Desert Storm, so it asked one of its European Community partners and NATO allies, namely Belgium, to sell it some of its stocks.  Belgium, under the premiership of Wilfred Martens refused despite the fact that Britain among others was engaged in an operation to combat the naked aggression of Iraq against its tiny neighbour, Kuwait - and what's more : the operation had the full backing of the Security Council of the United Nations.  Belgium refused to cooperate for fear of aggravating some of the extremist minorities in its country and thus splitting its coalition government.

	Another disadvantage of a single Europe would be the coalition of certain aspects of the culture of individual members which may seem completely abhorrant to some or all of the other members.  For example, bull-fighting in rural parts of Spain is considered to be a tradition that has gone back hundreds of years and which therefore must be preserved whereas in Britain the overwhelming majority of people find bullfighting not only barbaric but also needless.  These sorts of disagreements and cultural differences may seem banal but only serve to illustrate what would happen in the political sphere, but of course the consequences of disaccord there would be much more far reaching.

	In conclusion, I would say that a single europe would lead to a damaging loss of sovereignty for Britain in that Westminster would have no control over important Defence and Foreign Policy issues as well as internal issues such as the Police and crime as well as the prevention of terrorism.  In the latter issue, Northern Ireland especially would probably be managed worse by a combined European Police force and Army than it is at present by our experienced security forces.  In this way, interference from Brussels would both be damaging and necessary.  However, in my opinion, Britain should become part of a single European Community Economy with an independent European Central Bank, made up of prominant economists from each of the member states, running the major monetary, economic and trading policies of the Community.  Such an economic unit would pose a greater threat to the economic supremacy of Japan and the U.S. and the newly emerging economies of the Pacific rim: such as Taiwan, S. Korea and Thailand, which are becoming more and more powerful as years go by and could one day even topple Japan from its "top spot".  In essence, I would say "No, No, No" to a single country made up of the European Community members but an emphatic "Yes, Yes, Yes" to a single Economic zone within the E.C. with a common Economic Policy directed by the finest Economic brains Europe has to offer.

