
<ICLE-BR-SUR-0001.2>

How does Voltaire tackle the question of philosophical optimism in 'Candide'?

	Philosophical optimism -l'optimisme- is the philosophy that everything and occurence is for some good. Voltaire sets out in Candide to criticise this philosophy.

	In Candide the representative of this philosophy is Pangloss, the philosopher employed at Thunder-der-Troncks.

	The whole book is a criticism of l'optimisme. For example when Candide is forced to join the Bulgar army he is beaten almost to death but Candide does not concern himself because he know it is for his own good - in fact later in the book he uses his training to become a soldier. Although this would seem to be good it is not because of his training he kills two men, a Jew and an Archbishop with no hesitation and then proceeds to kill his sweethearts brother.

	Voltaire show his dislike of l'optimisme when Pangloss, Candide and James are caught in a bad storm at sea in which James is drowned and there are only three survivors, Candide, Pangloss and a sailor. The storm was caused by an earthquake which destroys the city to which Candide was sailing to. On arrival they see starvation and death. Candide is obviously horrified, especially when the sailor begins pillaging the city. Candide looks to Pangloss for an answer but Pangloss can only tell him that some good will come of it.

	Candide, although remaining true to the ideals of optimism, always appears to be sceptical of it. This is no more true than when he arrives in the new world, South America, and has to leave his darling Cunégonde with the Commissioner of the province. Candide cannot see what possible good can come of this especially as the reason that he was in America was due to him killing the Jew and Archbishop because they were Cunégonde's lovers. Throughout the book we begin to see how Candide is gradually lead away for l'optimisme or perhaps more importantly how l'optimisme is shown to be the philosophy of despair. The constant belief that good can come from bad is not actually inspiring but leads to a constant flow of disasters.

	Candide's life, in the book, appears to show this. He is thrown out of Thunder-den-Tronck because he embraces Cunégonde, he is duped into the army, he is caught in an earthquake, he is almost killed as part of an auto-da-fé, he kills three churchmen, he is almost eaten, he finds Eldorado but leaves- the list continues. Candide's life is governed by his belief the good will prevail. Eventually, of course, he does marry Cunégonde but she is not the beautiful young flower that he once loved. She has become ugly and grew worse by the day. This illustrates emphatically the folly of l'optimisme. Candide has travelled the world in search of Cunégonde, with the hope that he will marry her despite all the trouble which he has gone through, of course in the end he does get Cunégonde but at the price of her looks and personality.

	Voltaire, in Candide, shows how the philosophy of Optimism is one of despair not hope.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0002.2>

	Philosophical optimism is the target of Voltaire's attack on social attitudes at the time. The idea of divine providence in a world of human cruelty and natural disasters was ridiculous to him, and he tries to hammer the realities home to his reader.

	The natural environment which should be the easiest for God to control, is mercilessly hard on people. To this end, Voltaire has the protagonist Candide travelling all over the world and witnessing them. The best example is the Lisbon earthquake which claimed thousands of lives so needlessly. The sea is also hostile, claiming the 'life' of Martin during their journey to Portugal. While trekking across the desert from El Dorado the better part of his herd of sheep die of dehydration or quicksand.

	Civilization too, is oppressive and destructive. Pangloss was chained to a Turkish galley for the most trivial of reasons, women such as Cungegonde are treated as merchandise, and wars result in mass, pointless genocide (as for example seen in the overly pruriant description of the Bulgarian army atrocities in Westphalia).

	Individual human nature is a variety of negative traits. Cunegonde's Brother is arrogant and patronizing, the sailor on board Candides ship is ungrateful and grossly insensitive to human suffering, the police are corruptible and have double standards and many more. In fact each individual usually has at least one unpleasant side to his/her personality.

	The purpose of nature, civilization and personality being portrayed in such an overly bad light is to show how there is hardly anything 'qui va pour le mieux dans le monde' let alone thinking that everything does.

	There is hardly any evidence of good will or the benign influence of God throughout the entire book (excepting Martin and the seemingly miraculous escapes which certain characters make from the clutches of death). All the elements contrive in a perverse and malignant way to inflict as much suffering and unhappiness as possible. Certain individuals have been so 'unlucky' that it becomes comic. Pangloss is hanged, dissected alive, flogged and chained to a Turkish galley. There is even one-upmanship in hard luck stories with every person having a claim to being the 'least fortunate person in the world'. All this is to show in as blindingly obvious way as possible that the very notion of optimism is totally absurde.

	Candide even goes as far as to suggest that people are destined to be either bored or tortured in life without intermediate stages. He admits not knowing which to prefer. 

	Optimism is more directly ridiculed via Pangloss who represents this view. His syllogistic and absurd reasoning shows how flimsy the argument is. He is also inflexible and unreceptive to other arguments and real world evidence- just like the ordinary believer in divine providence. Even at the end, having suffered as he did - he still cosily believes that 'tout va pour le mieux'.

	The positive figure of Martin sensibly argues the other side having taken into account his personal experiences.

	Even the church does not practice what it preaches and perpetuates the injustices of the world. The Abbé from Périgord sets up a hoax to rob Candide of his money, while Friar Giroflées confessions would be shocking to readers of Candide at that time.

	Thus Voltaire goes to pedantic lengths to show how naïve and ludicrous the belief in optimism is, and how in fact the world appears utterly devoid of divine influence.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0003.2>

	The question of philosophical optimism was the main movement of thought during Voltaire's life. He wrote Candide in 1758 and published it in 1759, by which time he was 64 years old and was feeling very sceptical. Voltaire began his life mildly optimistic but by the time he reached 64 years, he came to the conclusion that the question of philosophical optimism had to be dealt with.

	Thus, in Candide, meaning 'Optimism', he chooses to attack the doctrine of Optimism in a subtle and amusing way. He chooses the hero, named 'Candide' and throughout the book, makes him either the witness or the hero. The chapters are short and precise, including the necessary detail to portray the question of optimism. Candide, the hero is often the mouth-piece of voltaire and in this way Voltaire can express his own views through the character.

	The book, 'Candide', is full of tragedies and some of the experiences endured by the characters are devastatingly shocking. However, Voltaire's aim is not to move but to amuse. he writes the tragedies in such a way that they bring laughter to the reader rather than tears. The Narrative side takes second place as Voltaire concentrates on the philosophy he is trying to put forward.

	In order to tackle the question of philosophical optimism in Candide, Voltaire has to prove his philosophy of rejecting the doctrine of optimism or at least trying to slow it down. Thus, he begins the story by making Candide agree to philosophical optimism and listen to his tutor, Dr. Pangloss who preaches it. Then as the story progresses, the changes in attitudes and thoughts can develop, resulting in the way Voltaire believes.

	Voltaire aims to persuade the reader that the doctrine of optimism is not a valid one. Everything that happens in this world is not for the best according to Voltaire and there is too much suffering in the world for everything to be so positive. Voltaire uses suffering in order to criticize the doctrine of optimism. The story is one continuation of suffering and tragedy to the characters.

	From the very beginning of the book, Candide experiences and witnesses suffering and things go from bad to worse. However, he is not dissuaded from the philosophy of optimism because of these occurances thanks to his tutor Dr. Pangloss. However, in chapter VI, after complete devastation by an earthquake, a storm and being shipwrecked, Dr. Pangloss is hung and Candide is flogged. Naturally, Dr. Pangloss is presumed dead, however he does reappear, but not until the end and by this time, Candide has changed views and rejected the philosophy of optimism. Voltaire cleverly rids him of Dr. Pangloss, so Candide can develop his own ideas without being influenced by Dr. Pangloss.

	However it must be stated that Voltaire gives Candide the chance to experience many different views on philosophical optimism by meeting different people who have all had different experiences in life, before he makes a decision. It took Voltaire most of his life to fully decide that he rejected the doctrine of philosophical optimism, so he does the same to Candide, to prove that his rejection is justifiable.

	Some of the characters that Candide meets on his metaphysical journey of discovery, have a great influence on him and help his views to develop. Voltaire places characters at allocated times in the book, to represent a certain type of person. For example, there is the old woman in chapters XI and XII, who during the sea voyage between Cadiz and Buenos Aires, is given the chance to tell her life story. She is a tragic figure in that she has endured so much pain and suffering throughout her life. She was born of high-birth, the illegitimate daughter of Pope Urban X, however she was sold into slavery at an early age and from then on had a life full of terrible experiences. However, the old woman is a representative of optimism. She never gave up hope and although she knew of twelve people who voluntarily put an end to their miseries, she is still content with her life and has gained fortune after much misfortune. Voltaire uses the old woman as an example of optimism, someone who has succeeded eventually in life, having endured so much pain.

	In complete contrast, there is the character Martin, who is first mentioned in chapter XIX. This is a significant part of the book and here Voltaire wants to make the reader realise that Candide has reached the turning point and is finally becoming accustomed to the idea of rejecting optimism.Candide having killed three people and experienced much suffering, is faced with a tragic vision of a negro who has no left leg and no right hand. The negro has been unjustifiably left to die and this makes Candide realise that there is no excuse for these actions and everything cannot possibly be for the best. Voltaire appropriately brings in the character, Martin, at this stage who is a complete contrast to the old woman. Martin is a representative of philosophical pessimism as he had led such a terrible life as well. He worked in a bookshop for ten years, had been tricked by many people and was accused of a form of heresy. He has suffered but not physically, unlike the old woman, however Martin has the complete pessimist's view that life is not really worth living if there is no control over what you do and everything goes wrong when you least want it to. Voltaire uses Martin as the type of radical person who rejects optimism. Martin has extreme views and the influence of Martin on Candide gives Candide the chance to decide whether he will go from one extreme to the other and accept Martin's doctrine of pessimism or whether he will just reject optimism.

	Voltaire is given one particularly major opportunity to lead a better life where everything he ever wanted will be there for him. This is in the place called Eldorado. Candide is given the chance to escape suffering and tragedy in this world of paradise, where everything in life would be for the best and the question of philosophical optimism being true, would have unanimous support. However, Candide does not possess everything he ever wanted to, because the love of his life, Lady Cunégonde is not with him. Voltaire here portrays that even if it seems you have everything in life and everything is for the best, there is usually something missing and nowhere satisfies someone with everything.

	It is established therefore, that Candide rejects Dr. Pangloss' philosophy and many other philosophy on optimism about two-thirds of the way through the book. However, Voltaire wants to emphasize that although Candide has rejected optimism he still keeps going. hope is what spurs him on and the thought of one day meeting with his beloved Lady Cunégonde again.

	Having experienced so many tragedies, Candide's hope brings him to what he thought was final happiness. However, just to completely damn the doctrine of optimism, Candide is met with disappointment. The Lady Cunégonde has turned out to be a disappointment and in his final years, he therefore resorts to having metaphysical discussions with Dr. Pangloss who survived his execution. Voltaire has voiced his own opinions through Candide and Candide ultimately rejects philosophical optimism. However, Candide does not reject one doctrine, in order to adopt another, that of Martin. He simply believes optimism is not the correct and not a justifiable philosophy where everything is done for the best.

	In the final chapter (XXX), Voltaire expresses his own philosophy using two Turkish men. A Turkish philosopher meets Candide in order to show him the uselessness of metaphysical speculation and a Turkish farmer shows Candide the value of work. Voltaire has tackled the question of philosophical optimism in a very successful way, in Candide. Both views are given on the subject by the main characters and the outcome is justifiable, according to Voltaire. Using the main character as a mouthpiece, concentrating on the philosophy involved rather than the narrative and seeking to amuse rather than shock means Voltaire can express his views clearly and emphasize his ultimate rejection on philosophical optimism.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0004.2>

	The philosophical conte of 'Candide' tells of a metaphysical journey from falsity to reality via the ideal of Eldorado where there is a process of great learning and maturity. In this conte Voltaire savagely condemns the doctrine of optimism; the notion that all is well in the world and that events occur as part of some Divine Purpose. Voltaire rejects this theory of optimism on the basis that there is so much evil in the world and this optimism is subject to great satire throughout 'Candide'. Voltaire presents optimism through the use of Pangloss who religiously adheres to this 'detestable principle' and he contrasts it with the pessimistic views of Martin and by showing many atrocities and evils in the world of which the conte provides an abundance. 

	In 1775 an earthquake struck Lisbon killing 40.000 people or more and this severely shook Voltaire's view and faith in God. Voltaire thus began to question the theory of optimism presented by Alexander Pope 1733-4 in his 'Essay on Man' that 'whatever is, is right': Voltaire asked: why do men suffer under a master who is just? Finding no answer, Voltaire rejected the principle of optimism- that logic and reason could somehow explain away the chaotic wretchedness of existence by ignoring the facts. Indeed the question of philosophical optimism is subject to much attack and satire in 'Candide'.

	Voltaire tackles it by juxtaposes this doctrine of optimism with the evils in society; rape, pillage, murder, massacre, hanging, storm, disease, earthquake, theft, prostitution contrast the theory that 'tout est bien dans le monde' which heightens its travesty.

	In 'Candide' the character of Pangloss has the aim of representing this ridiculous 'philosophical optimism'. Pangloss believes that there can be 'no effect without cause' and he comes under great satire by Voltaire for adhering to this 'thoughtless optimism'. Pangloss taught 'metaphyisco-, theologo-, cosendo-, nigology'; 'nigology' is a made up word which shows that his teachings are a fraud and therefore Voltaire disreputes optimism. At the beginning of the conte Candide naïvely and innocently believes Pangloss as he is not 'really listening' but is more interested in the beautiful Cunégonde. Throughout the tale, the various characters  open Candide's eyes to reality and he soon rejects Pangloss's theory of optimism in favour of a practical philosophy of hard work and common sense.

	During the course of 'Candide', Voltaire presents much human misery and suffering indicating that all is indeed not well in society; the fate of Cunégonde, Pangloss, the old woman and indeed Candide himself lead Candide to question the teachings of Pangloss. When in Eldorado, an idealized happy society, Candide realises that what Pangloss said about Westphalia - that is was the 'best of all possible worlds'- was wrong; but he resolves not to stay in Eldorado and be happy because he wishes to be re-united with Cunégonde. Candide finally rejects optimism when he sees a slave in Surinam with only one leg and one arm and when Cacambo innocently asks Candide 'what is optimism', Candide replies: 'C'est la rage de soutenir que tout va bien quand on est mal'.

	Candide then acquires the service of Martin who is a total pessimist; he can see only envy, hate and war in the world. Martin contributes greatly to Candide's education of society and Martin's pessimism represents the other extreme to Pangloss's optimism. Candide, near the end of the conte, after viewing and being subject to much suffering, questions the optimism of his teacher Pangloss showing he has made progress and that he rejects this fatalistic acceptance of evil.

	Thus throughout 'Candide' Voltaire tackles the ridiculous theory of optimism by taking to its absurd logical extreme (seen through Pangloss) and by contrasting it with Martin's total pessimism and the many evils in society. Voltaire, however, ends on an optimistic note; that hard work can dispel 3 vices -boredom, misery and need and in his conculsion Voltaire states that through a practical philosophy of hard work one can be happy and prosperous. "Il faut cultiver notre jardin". In his poème on the Lisbon earthquake Voltaire says: 'one day all will be well, that is our hope' and indeed the satire in 'Candide' certainly proves that all is not well now by disproving the theory of optimism.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0005.2>

	Voltaires approach to the philosophy of 'l'Optimisme' in the novel Candide is one of scathing criticism. This achieved threw the use of satire, l'optimisme is shown to be comic and ridiculous in relation to a cruel reality.

	Pangloss, Candides teacher and friend espouses l'optimisme. He is a proffessor of metaphysico-cromonologigie, a ridiculous name for a ludicrous subject. Throughout the book, whever there is a disaster, Pangloss fondly proclaims that in the best possible of worlds, everything is for the best! An example of this is when he is explaning to Candide how he caught the pox, a terrible venereal disease that can make people sterile and send them mad, he explains its genealogy and states that originally one of Colombus sailors caught it in the New world and brought it over to Europe. This, according to Pangloss was a good thing as Colombus also brought back cochineal and chocolate, without his trip those items would not have been available, and so it is worthwhile having the pox!

	Voltaire highlights the ridiculous nature of l'optimisme by putting is characters into truly awful situations, and then letting Pangloss expound his nonsense. The characters encounter rape, pillage, war, natural disaster, disease and separation and throughout the novel Pangloss never falters in his assertion that everything is for the best. Candide, however, the main character, slowly begins to appreciate that such a philosophy is nonsense.

	Candide starts out as a naïve young man 'avec les moeurs les si douces' who idealizes Pangloss and his teachings and attempts apply them in his life. He suffers a series of misfortunes which painfully teach him about reality. He is evicted from his home, a castle in Westphalia for having fallen in love with Cunégonde, who has enticed him to behave badly. His love for Cunégonde is a mirage, he is in love with an ideal which contrasts sharply with what we know about her expedient virtues. He follows her around the then known world but they are always separated by adversity and by her tendancy to take the easy way out.

	Candide encounters war which Voltaire sarcastically glamorises and then shows to us in all its appallingness, and sees his friend Jaques the anabaptiste drowned. He loses Cunégonde, finds her in Spain (living as the kept woman of a catholic and a jew), and loses her again. He sees his friend Pangloss suffer from the pox and be executed at an auto da fé and throughout all these terrors he remains faithful to l'optimisme. He visits Eldorado, described as a Utopian society and leaves with great riches (which eventually loses. His only in Surinam after he and Cacambo, his servant, have encountered a slave, who left Africa full of hope but has ended up having a leg and a hand amputated and living in misery, that he begins to change his tune. He says 'O Pangloss il faut que je renonce à ton meilleur des mondes'. From this time on Candide takes a more positive approach to life, he has realized that in this life nothing is destined to turn out for the best, the philosophy of l'optimisme is nonsense.

	At the end of the book Candide speaks for the author when he says 'il faut cultiver notre jardin'. He has rejected l'optimisme and adopted a modestly positive approach; accepting lifes limitations but encouraging the reader to do what he can to tend his life. Pangloss never learns this lesson and when he questions a learned man in Turkey he is told to 'te taire!'. Voltaire describes Pangloss as 'borgne' after his brush with syphilis which perhaps refers also to the philosophy of l'optimisme' which is illogical, unbalanced and does not see the world as it is.

	Thus Voltaire carries out a damning critique on the philosophy of l'optimisme by juxtaposing it with themes of disaster and by using Candide to show us the authors point of view in contrast.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0006.2>

	'Candide' is Voltaire's wittiest work. The target for the wit is the theory of eternal optimism which was profounded at the time by Leibzig. However it is not just a clever and amusing tale around the 'tout est bien' philosophy but a critical assessment of the doctrine. Voltaire showed his displeasure of the 'all is for the best' theory in his poem after the Lisbon earthquake where grieving victims were indeed told that their grief was needed to continue the general scheme of the world. Voltaire mocked them by  saying that the  masons would probably be celebrating as they would earn a great deal for rebuilding the city, or the heirs to large fortunes would be glad as they would now receive their inheritance. Voltaire described this philosophy as the only possible horror which could be equal to the earthquake itself.

	In 'Candide', it is our hero's tutor, Pangloss who subscribes to Leibzig's theory even though he sometimes confuses it. We meet the 'tout est bien' principle in the very first chapter where Pangloss attempts to explain his beliefs with some basic examples such as ears were given so that spectacles would sit on them properly. Pangloss then expounds on this theory throughout the tale, sometimes with a callous coldness.

	This is exemplified when Candide, Pangloss and Jacques the Anabaptist, Candide's benefactor are sailing to Lisbon. Jacques is drowned in a shipwreck while saving an ungrateful sailor. This 'brutal de matelot' survives together with Pangloss and Candide. The injustice of the situation is clear to all but Pangloss showing no sympathy consoles Candide by saying that it had to happen at that time off the coast of Lisbon.

	Voltaire is in full flow now with incident after incident which stretch the reader's credulity to the limit but also go to show the farcical extremes to which Pangloss will go to justify his theory. Voltaire uses the Lisbon earthquake to make the same point which is outlined above when the real earthquake occured.

	The plot then goes into a ridiculous level. Candide is whipped and Pangloss is hanged at a magnificant auto-da-fé which was held so that similar earthquakes would not strike Lisbon again. Candide then begins a series of adventures without his tutor, first with Cacambao and then with Martin, an eternal pessimist.

	He manages to reach the almost Utopian land of Eldorado quite by chance. There, everybody is extremely rich and there is no need for anything? People pray to thank God rather than ask for anything. It is a true 'paradis terrestre' where Candide and Cacambao could have stayed and live happily ever after.  They do not however as Candide becomes bored with the easy, non pressured life and yearns to see his beloved Cunégonde. He and Cacambao leave Eldorado laden with treasure beyond the wildest dreams of Europeans, to begin their search for Cunégonde. 

	Another incident happens in Italy where Candide is with Martin. Martin is the closest character in the tale to Voltaire himself. He forever bursts Candide's optimistic bubbles and is the pessimist influence in his life to counterbalance Pangloss' optimism. Candide and Martin visit the Procurante who has all the material possessions imaginable in life. Candide automatically assumes that the Procurante would be the happiest man in the world but not until Martin tells him otherwise that he begins to fully comprehend what the Procurante had said. Although he has the best books, best gardens, best food etc., none of it pleases him. They are purely material possessions which give him no aesthetic pleasure at all.

	At the end of the tale all the characters are back together again. Pangloss, although he has been dissected, hung at an auto-da-fé and whipped on a Turkish galley, still believes that 'tout est bien'. Candide's opinions are however changing under the influence of Martin and his own personal experiences. He has married the now haggard Cunégonde, more out of a sense of duty than love and is not particularly happy. He comes to the conclusion that work on the farm is the way to achieve happiness.

	Philosophical optimism is tackled in a very direct and mocking manner. Pangloss is ridiculed from the very beginning. Candide begins the tale as an innocent who believes everything his tutor tells him. His subsequent journeys however make him aware of the real importance in life. The theory is fundamentally flowed by Voltaire throughout the story.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0007.2>
	The scientific revolution although having made the most progress during the 17th century actually had its roots in the 15th and 16th century. It was with Copernicus and his view of the planet in field of astronomy that the scientific revolution truly began, this was because at the time astronomy was the most popular of the sciences and development in astronomy affected the people as a whole. Copernicus' idea was that instead of being geocentric as the planetary system had always been supposed to be it was in fact heliocentric with the sun and not the earth as the centre of the universe round which all the other planets revolved. He said that the earth rotated on its axis every twenty-four hours around the sun. He rejected the religious concept of the hierarchy of sub-lunar, super-lunar. However, his revolutionary ideas did not interest his contempories because his explanations were not amplified and he still had a system of planets revolving around an imaginary point in space although he had changed the epi-centre. It was not until the next century that his ideas were explained by Bruno and then Gallileo. At the same time his discoveries which were based not on observation but on mathematical reasoning, led to people questioning what they had always accepted to be true. Aristotle's idea of the sub-lunar sphere of death and decay culminating in their rejection of the hierarchy altogether. Copernicus expanded people's view of the universe although he did not believe it was unlimited.

	Bruno, who was put to death for his scientific beliefs in 1600 represents the development of Copernicus' ideas and the scientific revolution. Peoples acceptance of them followed by the Church's condemnation. He was a great follower of Copernicus though he held the universe to be infinite. He too rejected the hierarchy of sub-lunar etc. saying instead that this was a homogenous system which contained thousands of planets similar to our own revolving round the sun. As Copernicus hadn't succeeded in doing he explained the phenomenon which meant that while the planets rotated the clouds did not actually appear to go backwards! - He called it a 'dynamic system' where everything was in motion at the same time. He was the first to introduce the idea of such a mechanical system. However it was not until Galileo and his theory of inertia that this was truly explained. Galileo's work in mechanics led to the development of scientific method, marking a turning point in science to the beginning of modern scientific method. He was also the first to use and develop the telescope for astronomy which further extended people's view of the heavens thus opening their minds.

	Descartes however, along with Bacon was the main thinker in the Scientific Revolution. His was the philosophy of continental rationalism. His conclusions were based on reasoned conviction beginning with a self-evident panaple such as the proof of his own existance which lead him to the proof of the existance of God. He built up step-by-step a series of conclusions until he had made a world very similar to the real one. Rationalism involved innate principals, the idea that things did not have to be confirmed to be true, that a person could only come to the explicit explanation of truth by sensory experience. Thus rationalism consisted of a deductive set of rules by which to gain information, rather like in mathematics. This was a new concept altogether in the 17th and 18th Bacon on the other hand, while confinning Descartes idea that the universe was essentially rational and composed of nothing but matter and motion was an example of anglo-saxon empiricism. This philosophy considered rationalism to be 'a priori' assumed to be true rather than based on potential controlled experiment as was empiricalism. This philosophy was founded by John Locke of England and believed that principles were not 'innate' but learnt by perception, that ideas could be drawn from experience. Introspection was a way of showing the relation between ideas. While Descartes scientific theories were being  disproven in England by men such as Newton, his thought was the principal basis of French thinking during the 18th. Descartes made a significant contribution to French thinking with his theory of 'dualism' that the mind was distinct from the body and he said that a human was essentially a thinking being and therefore one's body was only circumstantial. He considered the body along with matter to be ruled by laws of logic while the mind and the spirit were in a totally different realm. This remarkable theory meant that people began to talk about 'the mind' as a different concept than 'the body'

	The Renaissance which wiped out traces of previous thinking without replacing it with anything else substantial, therefore people were faced with either adopting complete scepticism or accepting the present while Descartes provided an alternative. In his 'discours de la méthode' he gave four principles of method which were: the criterion of truth, the analytical breaking down of a problem into its component parts, beginning with the simplest self-evident principle from which the rest proceeded in a logical order and finally the wholeistic approach of reconstituting the component parts into a whole.

	In his 'discours' Descartes rejected one all he's held to be true in the past. He said that philosophy rules of logic were useful only to illustrate something we already knew and not to discover new truths and that geometry and algebra were too abstract to be of further use in science. Thus he decided to put together his own methods but until he had so done he laid down three maxims of his provisional morality. The first was to avoid excess at all costs, to be moderate, the second was to be constant and not to change from one line of thinking to another, the last was to resign oneself to what one had rather than wanting other things. This line represents a kind of stoicism that it was easier to change the way one thought of the world than to change the world itself. Thus, Descartes provided many new angles of thought for the French to consider in his work. In particular, people begun to ask themselves that if this was indeed an ordered universe with logical rules then surely God himself was subject to such rules also. This was a very significant change of thought from previously when God was considered the all-powerful being at the centre of the existance of each and every man.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0008.2>

	In the 'Discours sur l'origine de l'inégalité', Rousseau depicts how the development of civilization has corrupted man's natural happiness and freedom by the creation of artificial inequalities of power, wealth and social privilege. 
	In order to discover how this corruption of man came about, Rousseau traces the development of humanity from nascent man to society as it presented itself in the eighteenth century, to uncover the principle sources of human equality.

	Natural man as imagined by Rousseau was physically strong and thrived in his habitation of woodland, was uncomplicated and had few needs 'la nourriture, une femelle et le repos'. It is essential to Rousseau's argument to see natural man as innocent and independant and as inherently good. When he was alone and dependant upon no-one he was equal to his fellow man, it was only when man discovered the ability to co-operate with other men , to work together and thus found the basis of a civilization did man's corruption begin, leading to social inequalities.

	Rousseau places man's development in five seperate stages. The first is the stage of man's innocence when he is dependant only on himself and in stark contrast to civilized man he is free from corruption. The second stage man forms a social unit of 'family' as he builds himself a dwelling and becomes protector and father. This is the 'golden age' from which man is ousted due to the desire for self-improvement. This leads to the development of the concept of property as man who has become a cultivator needs to protect the land he has cultivated from others, and so makes a statement of owning it thus leading to a horrible state of war (as Hobbes said) 'of each against all'. The final stage is the establishment of a 'social contract' in order to secure peace for everyone and to escape the perpetual state of war.

	This is the development of man into society from a stage of equality into a life of human inequality.

	Rousseau looks at 'man-made-man' and sees how he is dehumanised when compared with earlier man.

	The social development which occurred when men desired self-improvement led to man being capable of advancement due to science and scientific knowledge but as  Rousseau said, 'these supposed improvements were the source of his misfortunes'.

	Indeed man's misfortunes started with the development of agriculture, with the idea of propriety and with the division of labour. All these events led to the foundation of civilization which was based upon a fraudulent social contract with the rich dominating and intimidating the poor. It is to be noted that Rousseau places the fault upon the rich first (before the idea of the strong dominating the ...) as the beginning of the inequalities of man started with economic inequality as society progressed from a subsistence economy to a productive economy which meant that man produced enough food for himself and his fellow men, who were making the tools which were needed for agriculture, and then the remaining produce was fought over.

	Rousseau said to this effect that 'wheat and steel civilized man and caused his destruction'.

	Therefore it would seem that the very origins of a society led to the creation of inequalities amongst men which led to 'une guerre perpétuelle' as the poor man had to fight to get what he needed to survive, and the rich man had to fight to keep what he had. The power of the rich therefore was precarious and had to be dominant to control the poor.

	Another source of human inequality arose from the development of man's self-awareness in society. By instinct and in nature, man had 'l'amour de soi-même' which was a necessary love of oneself to protect oneself in order to survive. It was self-contained and serves to protect the species. Once in society, man developed 'l'amour propre', a kind of pride in which man became competitive and envious of others, and far from society being based upon equality, it developed arbitrarily as the rich did not necessarily prosper by their natural skills, strengths or merits but rather by the subjugation of the poor.

	Therefore the inequalities were promoted in many ways and 'le mal' flourished only when civilization had begun.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0009.2>

	Thoughtless optimism is one of the main themes of Voltaires 'conte' 'Candide'. Voltaire sets this optimism in an absurd background where it is personified by the ridiculous philosopher Pangloss. Pangloss's answer to all occurances, whether good or bad, is that 'all is for the best in the best of all worlds' it does not matter how much human misery and violence he is exposed to he still quotes his philosophy. 

	Voltaire demonstrates the futility of this attitude in a very amusing, fast flowing way, Pangloss is merely a literary device designed to convey Candide's criticism of thoughtless optimism. Rather than taking it to pieces and destroying it bit by bit, Voltaire takes completely the opposite stance and builds up the philosophy of Pangloss to such ridiculous extremes that it cannot possibly be taken seriously.

	Voltaire creates series of great human suffering brought on both naturally and by mankind, then in the middle of it all Pangloss starts his philosophising that these incidences are good and for the best making the incongruity of it all particularly striking. When Jacques drowns for example Pangloss restrains Candide from jumping in to rescue him by saying that the Earthquake and shipwreck were supposed to happen specifically for the purpose that Jacques might die here in Lisbon harbour.

	Another example comes earlier on in the novel when Candide, having escaped from the Bulgars meets an old 'tramp' on the road, only to realise it is his old master and teacher Pangloss. The Baron's home and family in Westiphalia have been destroyed and Pangloss is ravaged by syphilis contracted from Paquette, yet Pangloss remains optimistic and positive, there is no despair. Pangloss merely states that if it were not for syphilis there would be no chocolate in the world. Again through the complete absurdity of this comment Voltaire tackles the problem of thoughtless optimism.

	Even when Candide lies dying after the earthquake calling out for wine, Pangloss stands there philosophising stupidly on the necessity of it all. The reader is forced to consider how Pangloss can possibly see such a disastor as something for the best, and how can a world plagued by such disastors possibly be the best of all possible worlds? This impact would probably have been even greater in Voltaire's time, since the Lisbon earthquake was an actual occurance which shocked and stupified many people, unable to comprehend its nature or the force behind it.

	Further more, Voltaire tackles the problem of philosophical optimism by introducing a character representative of the exact opposite to Pangloss's philosophy. Martin is an exponent of total pessimism and while Pangloss as a character fades into the background, his philosophy manifests itself in Candide who travels with Martin. At the stage where Candide meets Martin, we see that his travels to South America, in particular his encounter with the disabled slave (deformed as a result of mans malice), have  undermined his faith in Panglosses theory. Here he cries 'Oh! Pangloss I am going to have to renounce this optimism of yours once and for all, how could you possibly perceive this cruelty'. When Cacacomb his travelling companion askes 'what is this optimism?'. Candide replies 'it is the passion for insisting that all goes right in the world when in fact everything is bad'. This prepares the reader for Candide's encounter with Martin.

	Now Voltaire leads the reader through a series of events where the bad in society is actually perceived as being such as opposed to being counteracted by Panglosses thoughtless optimism. Candide and Martin have heared discussions about the relative values of hopeless pessimism and thoughtless optimism and the fallicies and faults of the two are exposed to the reader in this way. In Paris Martin and Candide encounter a sick society (particularly influenced by Voltaires own views of Paris) and symbolically Candide falls ill, but his optimism is revived at the thought of seeing his beloved Cunegonde once more.

	Throughout this section of the book the two diametrically opposed philosophies are seen to be competing with each other for Candide's attention. At one point he is agreeing with Martin at another he is reminising about Pangloss. When he meets the diposed Kings he realises that he has only lost 'a hundred sheep' and after his encounter with the Procurante who is merely bored by wealth he has new faith in Panglosses theory. This is soon dispelled when he encounters Cunegonde one more, however, she is no longer his ideal and her life has made her ugly and she no longer represents Candide's desires.

	The philosophy of optimism is also challenged in Candide and Martin's encounter with Père Giroflet and Paquette. Candide bets Martin that they are the happiest couple in the world. The two of them are invited to diner an questioned separately, Candide loses his bet. Paquette has been forced to become a prostitute and can expect nothing more than a horrible old age and a dung heap. The monk is desparately unhappy having being forced into the monestry by his parents and he can only find solace in Prostitutes.

	From this analysis it is evident that Voltaire utilises both character and circumstance to tackle the problem of philosophical optimism and reveal his scorn of it to the public. All the different litterary devices used by Voltaire come together to expose the inadequacy of Panglosses' philosophy and also Martins'. At the close of the book Voltaire seems to achieve a compromise of a sort in the form of Candide who reconciles the philosophy of thoughtless optimism with that of total pessimism to obtain an altogether more pragmatic and realistic view of life. Pangloss, however, remains adament that all is still for 'the best in best of all possible worlds' which is perhaps Voltaires' way of indicating that the problem of extreme philosophies might never be resolved.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0010.2>

	Voltaire is one of France's most famous XVIIIth century philosophers. He has been widely acclaimed as the witiest and most perceptive authour of the 'roman philosophique'. In Candide, he tells the story of the young hero's travels throughout the world in search of happiness. On his travels the naïve boy becomes a mature man. Many of the episodes that the characters are put through in the story are outrageous and extravagant. They serve to keep the reader's interest and to give a cynical comentary on the world through Votaire's eyes. 

	The main motivation of the novel,however, was to launch an attack upon a popular philosophical theory of the day: optimism. This doctrin of divine providence carried many prestigous names in its list of followers, such as that of John Locke, a very influential English philosopher of the period. Optimism stated that, as the world was created by god, ,who is a perfect being, all that happens in it must be for the best. All individual suffering must be attributed to the general good.

	Voltaire's experiences and knowledge did not allow him to adopt this theory. He had been in Lisbon, for example, when a terrible earthquake destroyed the city and killed an estimated 50,000 people. How could such a terrible disaster possibly be 'for the best', and how could the deaths of so many people contribute towards the general good?

	In the novel, the young Candide accepted Optimism as an unshakeable theory when he was taught it by his tutor, Pangloss, whom he described as the best of all tutors. As the story charts the various disasters experienced by Candide and his companions, the hero finds it increasingly difficult to justify his faith in everything being for the best.

	His first experience of life outside his home, for example was that of an horrific and barbaric war, in which thousands of men were killed and women raped, with no constructive outcome. This , like many of his first experiences, he described as being the result of the various 'causes and effects' that were necessary for the world to be as it was. Next, Pangloss was afflicted with sypholis. He was close to death and lost an eye, but was able to justify this. He traced the source of the disease back to America, and proudly claimed that if man had not suffered from it, Europe would not have known tobacco and chocolate, which the explorers had brought back from the new world.

	Later in the story, Candide and his tutor are present at the earthquake in Lisbon. Pangloss' patiently ridiculous attempts to explain to the people of the city that the deaths of their families and the destruction of their homes were for the best and had to occur for the best of worlds to exist resulted in him being hung, and in his student be whipped almost to death. His faith in optimism was severely shaken here. (Candide's).

	At one point in the novel, Voltaire uses an alternative device to expose the fallacy of optimism. He arranges for Candide to discover Eldorado, a province in South America where everything truly was for the best. All men were equal and without anxiety. Crimes and violence did not exist as there was no motivation for them. A benevolant government, headed by a king who believed himself to be on the same level as his subjects, managed the economy in everyone's best interests. As for religion, the people required nothing from God, then merely prayed to thank him for their perfect world. The religious unity was complete. This picture of perfection provided a stark contrast with XVIIIth century Europe, and was designed to demonstrate just how far from being 'the best of worlds' our world really is.

	The end of the story sees Candide rejecting optimism. In fact, he rejects philosophy as a whole as method of achieving happiness. He discovers that the only route to a bearable life is through honest hard work and frugal living. Pangloss, on the other hand, stubbornly defends optimism, and is hence depicted as an old fool.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0011.2>

	In the 'comte' 'Candide' we see Candide, the principal character on a journey of discovery filled with strange episodes. It is in the course of this journey that Voltaire shows us how abhorrent the climate of optimism was to him, an optimism which often was simply an excuse for the lethargy of contemporary society.

	The story begins with Candide comfortably installed at the mansion of Baron Thunder-Ten Tronkh. Here, he is taught the philosophy of optimism by Pangloss, whose maxim is: 

	'Tout est pour le mieux dans le meilleur des mondes possible'.

	At the mansion in Westphalia, Candide falls in love with the beautiful Cunégonde, and because of this love he is thrown out of the house and forced to wander. He does not however forget what Pangloss has taught him, and naïvely beleives in this philosophy almost to the end of the book. Candide experiences many things which would make anyone else turn away from the philosophy of optimism but he goes on vainly beleiving that  

	'Tout est pour le mieux'.

	For example Candide is pressganged into joining the army and here he witnesses a bloody battle, where each side claims to be the victor having caused immense damage, and supposed heroes no worse than marauding rapists. Having survived this battle Cunégonde moves on through to Holland, where he meets again his friend and teacher Pangloss, who is almost dead of the pox, which he caught from Paquette, who in turn had traced it back through a long line, including several churchmen. Pangloss himself, although in this sorry state, still maintains his optimism, and together they journey to Portugal. Here once again they suffer terribly, first of all their friend is killed by a vicious sailor, and they arrive in Lisbon to find it in the midst of a terrible earthquake which kills many thousands of people. Somehow Candide manages to conclude that this must be part of some divine plan, although he is possibly beginning to have some doubts.

	His optimism is however renewed on his arrival in South America. The naïve Candide remarks on how the sea and climate are much better here than in Europe and so decides that this must certainly be

	'le meilleur des mondes possibles'.

	In his travels across South America, Candide chances upon El Dorado and it is here that we first here a criticism of Pangloss and life in Westphalia. When Candide remarks that although Pangloss said everything was for the best, he noticed that things always went badly in Westphalia. But this is not a complete rejection of the philosophy of optimism. It is not until his meeting with Cacambo that Candide realises how naïve Pangloss's views were, and also how restricted they were. He decides that the views of a person can be changed by travel such as has happened to him.

	At the end of the 'comte' we see Candide and Pangloss much more resigned to their fate. Although the thing which Candide has been pursuing all through the novel, that is Cunégonde does not quite turn out as he expected. Candide resigns himself to marrying her, however ugly she may be. He decides that the way to be happy was to work hard and so resigns himself to a life of farming in Turkey.

	Through the episodes in the 'comte' we can see how Voltaire seeks to show us that the philosophy of optimism is ridiculous. By making Candide, the main character of the comte so naïvely optimistic, Voltaire succeeds in doing this. His 'comte' was an indirect criticism of the 'laissez-faire' attitude of society where religion was no solace, as it was as corrupt as the rest of society. Although this work would appear to be light hearted, it does contain a very real condemnation of the attitudes of society and the naïve philosophy of optimism.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0012.2>

	Voltaire was hostile to the philosophical outlook of his day, that of optimism. He was not necessarily against Leibniz, Shaftesbury and Wolff even though he ridiculed their standardized terminology, but utterly opposed the perversions of this doctrine which offered the contrary. Such perversions turned this philosophy of hope into one of despair.

	Voltaire used pessimism as the main stream of attacking the philosophical doctrine of optimism. In this he includes suffering and misery which abound in the book.

	Martin is the character which Voltaire uses to represent pessimism, the view that man was made evil and therefore seeks to do evil and that everything that happens is for the worst. He enjoys bursting the bubbles of the hope of Candide who only lives for this ultimate happiness - that of seeing lady Cunégonde again. It is this hope which helps him to complete his life long journey.

	Conversly, the character of Pangloss represents the optimistic theory - 'all is best in the best of all possible worlds where everything is connected and arranged for the best'. He was Candide's tutor, who stood by this doctrine, in spite of all his sufferings - his own hanging, flogging and dissection. Such thinking angered Voltaire that good always comes out of evil particularly since the recent events of his day distrusted him so greatly - a disaster such as the earthquake at Linis and Lisbon in which thousands of people perished. How can that contribute to the common good?

	Every character involved in the book has endured much suffering including Candide himself. In a sense, he was blinded by following the illusion of the love of his life, lady Cunégonde, who he planned to marry one day. Voltaire presented her as an object of desire, the only reason why Candide continued on his journey but when they eventually met, Candide was greatly disappointed. She had changed in beauty and personality, she had become unbearable to live with. The point Voltaire wished to make was that supreme happiness was unobtainable.

	He also attacked the philosophy by showing that goodness/kindness is never recriprocated eg. Jacques, the Anabaptist, considered as a good man, saved a sailor from drowning during a tremendous storm as they approached Lisbon harbour. He himself however was swept overboard with the sailor do nothing to help. Even though Candide tried to save him, it was too late, he drowned.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0013.2>

	
	Voltaire seeks to tackle the question of philosophical optimism in 'Candide' by way of a witty satirical tale. Within the conte Voltaire uses the character of 'Pangloss' as the chief exponent of philosophical optimism, and his view is contradicted by that of Martin the Pessimist. Candide is the central figure in the tale and Voltaire places him in the happy medium of scepticism and the tale involves a 'voyages of discovery' for Candide to discover the truth of Optimism for himself. Voltaire manages to achieve this through the portrayal of human misery and suffering and natural disasters in order to demonstrate, bitterly, that 'all is not for the best in the best of all possible worlds!'

	At the outset, Candide is portrayed as a naïve young man about to set out in the world who has been profoundly effected by the tutor, Pangloss at the château of Westphalia. He believes in the Optimistic philosophy but a series of incredible and unlikely events occur to him when he sets out alone in the world and he is enabled to develop his own ontology. Thus Voltaire utilises Candide as a vehicle to express his own views on the philosophy.

	When Candide is forced to join the Bulgar army and is whipped for his attempt at desertion, he sees for himself the futility of warfare and how fruitless and destructive it all is. The ??? is introduced when both armies sing the 'te deum' to invoke God and thank him for their glorious sucess in the war when neither has apparently lost.

	It is when Candide is sailing to Lisbon with Jacques the anabaptist and Pangloss that Candide first experiences one of the real injustices of the world. The wicked sailor survives the storm to carry on pillaging, getting drunk and using prostitutes whilst the 'good Samaritan' character of Jacques drowns. Pangloss concludes that "la rade de Lisbonne été formée exprès pour que Jacques s'y noyât". However the philosophy of optimism is put to a greater test when the two arrive in Lisbon to see the mass death and destruction. Voltaire uses this event to launch a bitter attack on the philosophers at the time who declared that the earthquake was for the best and was all part of Gods Great Plan since the earthquake would allow masons to grow rich from re-building of the city and animals could feed from the dead carcasses. Such an argument seemed senseless to Voltaire and a cruel one in the face of such undeniable human suffering.

	The philosophy of Optimism, namely, that God has a divine purpose for all that goes on in the world and that it has been predestined to occur for the best and most perfect of reasonings, is put to a severe test when Candide meets the 'old woman' who tells the tragic tale of her life. Candide is touched with compassion and pity at her plight, although his own views are not changed by this horrific story.

	It is the meeting with the negro slave which finally convinces Candide of the shallow nature of the Optimistic school of thought and hence it marks a turning point in the conte. The slave has had an arm and a leg removed for his escape from the factory and comments bitterly, "C'est à ce prix que vous mangez du ??? en Europe". Bitterly disillusioned Candide remarks "Il faut que je renonce à ton optimisme" to Pangloss.

	When Candide encounters Martin the conte tries to balance the view of optimism with that of pessimism. Martin's views about pessimism are as narrow as Panglosses views on optimism -thoughless in their pedantic desire to uphold their philosophies. The criticism on Optimism is further compounded by Candide's answer to Martin's question inquiring about the nature of Optimism, "C'est la croyance que tout est pour le bien, quand il n'est pas bien".

	By the end of the conte, voltaire has allowed Candide to answer the question of philosophical optimism, or more accurately to deal with that question. Candide consults a sage on the matter and speaks to a wise farmer who seems content with his lot. The farmer tells him that the only way to overcome "l'ennui, le vice et le besoin" is by hard work and labour. Thus, whilst during the conte it is Candide who has been lead by the views of Martin and Pangloss, his experiences and new knowledge of the world enable him to become decide his own views and to become the leader.

	Candide has refused the philosophy of optimism in the end and resigns himself to a life of work. Evidently, metaphysical and philosophical ideologies have a purpose in their own right and a value in moral guidance, however it is all too easy to lose sight of reality if one concentrates too hard on philosophy, and rather than providing any justified and reasoned solutions to the meaning and purpose of life, it merely seeks to pose questions. Thus the last phrase "il faut cultiver notre jardin" is a warning to the reader not to engage in too much academic discussion and philosophical argument but to put oneself to more pragmatic concerns and to engage in more constructive activities. 



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0014.2>

	Montesquieu as an author of the Enlightment period is characterized by new lines of thinking which he was able to use to develop his "de l'esprit de lois".

	Montesquieu's approach was more from a scientific experiment in the study of the influence of the climate of the characteristics of different people in different societies. Although he begins from a fairly prouvable basis he regresses to a dependence on racial prejudices and arrives at very debatable conclusions.

	According to Montesquieu's theory, climate has a very large physical and spiritual influence on a society. He makes comparisons between societies in cold climates and those in more temperate or hot climates.

	The people from cold climates he says "ont plus de vigeur" are more courageous, enterprising, virtuous, less given to lying, jealousies. In fact he attributes so many good traits to them that one can see that he is analysing things from an obviously biased point of view. He based much of his argument on a scientific experiment he conducted with the tongue of an animal. He is able to claim from freezing the tongue of the animal that people from colder climates can endure physical pain better than those from more temperate climates. He also believes that they are less given to outbursts of passions which often have disastrous consequences in the warmer climates.

	Montesquieu's "de l'esprit de loi" tries to explain the spirit in which laws are formed. For Montesquieu, "loi" is symonymous with rapport or relationship. He believes that in studying societies one had to take account of the hidden structures inherent in humans such as passions and separate the religious and moral influences in order to correctly interpretate the characteristics of the specific society.

	Montesquieu believed in the existence of a natural law which he believed existed before the formation of societies. This natural law ensured that man had an instinct for self-preservation, was mutually attracted to other members of his species and sought to associate himself with them (which gave rise to his vulnerability). He believed that societies in colder climates were able to exist without legislative law for a long time.

	He characterises people from the warm climates as being given to excessive sentimentality, a code of honour and a widely exagerated type of love.

	In hot climates, the nerve-endings are distended and the veins less able to carry the needed nourishment to other parts of the body. The heart is less strong. These people, Montesquieu believed were therefore weak both physically and morally. The excessive heat made them more liable to be lazy, fearful, jealous of each other, full of vices... In fact these people were easier to subjugate. These attributes are given to the Indians by Montesquieu. He believes that the system of law should be instituted to counteract the negative effects of the climate on the people. This however is not the case in India. The main religious faith, Bhudism is given to a lot of spiritual meditation which further causes the people to do nothing. The right of ownership of property is given to Princes in this country and thus the majority of people are landless.

	Montesquieu makes a comparison with China which had laws to reinforce "l'esprit général" of the people. The have festivals to celebrate harvests and award incentives to the hardest workers thus encouraging the people. 

	The effects of Alcohol on the body is also largely influenced by the climate. In the North although they drink, the alcohol does not evaporate and coagulate in the blood. Such is the effect of alcohol in the south and thus people are more given to drunkeness. As Montesquieu says "L'Allemand boit par coutume, le spaniard par choix."

	The major characteristic of the cold climate being virtue, led to the formation of a Republican system of government. In order for Republicanism to be sustained in these regions education involved the inculcation of virtue in the citizens.

	In the temperate climates, honour being the main characteristic of the people led to the establishment of Monarchies. Education thus involved the inculcation of patriotic duty and honour into the people.

	In hot climates however Despotism reigned. This is because the people characterised by fear and ignorance are easier to subjugate. If all wealth and power was concentrated in one individual, he became the ruler and opressor of these people. The Despot being interested in his own self-protection or interests thus made sure Education would be to a limited extent and would involve the ??? instilment of fear in the people. Because if they lost their fear and ignorance the Despotic State could not survive.

	Montesquieu's theory of the influence of climate on societies is largely based on empirical evidence and exagerated anecdotes. 18 Century France was not very well educated on the cultures of other continents and could thus come to such biased conclusions as Montesquieu did.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0015.2>

	Voltaire uses the main character 'Candide' to take the reader on a journey through life, a journey of discovery, in which a series of events and tragedies are used to uphold Voltaire's argument against the theory of philosophical optimism which was held by so many French catholics.

	The doctrine of optimism is one which encompasses the idea that everything that happens is for the best. It is a doctrine of resignation ie one is supposed to sit back and accept everything that happens. This is illustrated by the character of 'Pangloss', who is whipped, hung, and nearly burnt alive at an 'auto-da-fé', yet still believes in the theory of optimism.

	As Candide starts out with a naïve and perhaps cheerful look on life, he soon discovers man's evil nature and the atrocities that man inflicts on himself. Senseless wars where no-body wins yet people are tortured; natural disasters, such as the earthquake in Lisbon; greed; selfishness; deceit; all are events and characteristics which Candide encounters in his search for ideal happiness. It is not long before he starts to question how the slaughter and death of so many people can possibly be for the best.

	Voltaire not only attacks the theory of optimism in his novel, but also attacks the religious order with which it is associated : the Catholics. The church as an institution is attacked through the condemning of religious wars, as are the clergy, who are seen to be hypocritical and scheming, for example abbé pévourdin who tricks Candide and tries to steal his money; the Jesuits, who more or less are trying to force those who were subservient; inequality of wealth among the weak and strong (those who could work longer and those who were ill); those who had homes, and those who did not.

	One can see today almost the same inequalities among men, in varying proportions according to country (area which according to Rousseau's hypothesis, developed from that early time, and in the way described.




<ICLE-BR-SUR-0016.2>

	In Candide Voltaire was seeking to present optimism, as represented by the philosophy of Pangloss (all tongue), as one of the three possible ways of reconciling the evil present in the world with the idea of "l'Etre Suprême". The optimistic view saw evil as a necessary part of God's plan. This was to be contrasted with the proposition, of 'Manichean' Martin that the world was inherently evil and one could only but accept it. Finally there was the opinion of "un derviche" who believes that all metaphysical analysis and philosophy was mere idle folly, a waste of time.

	Candide's early life and training takes place in "ce paradis terrestre" of the Château de Thunder-ten-tronckh in Westphalia. Life is idyllic and he is the model pupil for Pangloss his tutor. He believes firmly in the philosophy of life presented to him "tout est nécéssairement pour la meilleure fin", he has no reason to doubt in it, for in his enclosed world it is never put to the test. This remains the case even when he is banished fron the château for kissing the Baron's daughter Cunégonde behind the screen in the drawing room.

	Candide endures some horrific events in his early experiences of the outside world. He is severly punished in a traditional ceremony for trying to desert. He lives through the horror of the ??? Bulgarian war, seeing villages completely destroyed, hundreds slaughtered and even the château sacked. Still however he retains the optimistic views which Pangloss instilled in him, believing everything to be for an ultimately beneficient purpose.

	The first un-optimistic views to which Candide bears witness are those of Jacques l'Anabaptist on the boat to Lisbon, but he refuses to take these on board. Neverheless his attitudes begin to change when he lives through the combined horrors of the Lisbon earthquake and the ensuing auto da fé which cause him to expound "si c'est ici le meilleur des mondes, que sont les autres". However it is two more minor events that bring ??? to Candide the presence of evil and the fallibility of the optimistic philosophy. The death of Jacques l'anabaptist while saving the savage sailor who had just struck him and who proceeded to leave him to his fate has a great effect on Candide. Pangloss explains this away by stating

	"La rade de Lisbone avait été formé exprès pour que cet anabaptiste s'y noyât".
	
	Similarly when he finds the negro slave in Surinam who has been so mercilessly punished for trying to leave the sugar plantation Candide exclaims : 

	"Ah Pangloss" s'écria Candide "tu n'as pas deviné cette abomination, c'en est fait. Il faudra qu'à la fin je renonce à ton optimisme".

	In spite of these experiences Candide retains on adherence to optimism in better moments, as on the journey to the new world. He is reunited with his love Cunégonde and they believe that their future is bright :

	"C'est certainement le nouveau monde qui est le meilleur des univers possibles".

	Even after his treasure which he prised from the inaccessible Utopia El dorado he believes Providence is acting for him, for he sees the ship of the pirate Vanderdur sinking. However his joy is tempered by the realism of Martin who points out :

	"Mais fallait-il que les autres passagers qui était sur le vaisseau périssent aussi".

	In Venice Candide discovers that Kings can fall upon misfortune aswell, while in St. Marks Square he loses his bet with Martin that the couple sitting accross from them haven't a care in the world.

	At the end Candide has not rejected the philosophy of optimism completely nor has he endorsed the idea of Martin that the world is inhenrently evil. We are shown that both these philosophies are passive, they involve merely accepting the world as it is. The philosophy of the Derviche that Candide comes to accept, allows, unlike optimism one to improve oneself and to enable one to hope. This idea is embodied in the meeting with "le turc" who is poor but happy and always ??? towards something, it is this which leads Candide to say at the end "il faut cultiver notre jardin".

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0017.2>

	The title of the book is Candide où l'optimisme. The second part of it is the main theme of the book. Voltaire aimed to attack this philosophy for he had realised that it was wrong. It was a reaction against his own old belief of 
general progress.

	Voltaire goes about his subject using the evidence of facts. Candide goes through all kinds of adventures in different countries and everywhere he met evil. Voltaire wanted to show that evil - human inflicted evil was not only real but universal and thus violently attacked the principle that "whatever is, is right".

	Optimism was a philosophy developed by Leipniz. He argued that we lived in the best of all possible worlds and explained the existence of evil by saying that in creating the world, God had to add a least amount of evil, for a world that was totaly perfect is divine and not suitable for humans. Pangloss is the character that clearly represents this philosophy... He justifies all his misfortunes by claiming that they were "un ingrédient nécessaire" and just accepts them. Everything is for the best. Everything is made for a purpose and necessarily for the best purpose, for God is Benevolent.

	Voltaire raises questions around all these arguments. If God is benevolent why do the innocent suffer? Why do good men die? When the Anabaptist fell in the sea Candide wanted to throw himself to his rescue. Pangloss stops him explaining once again that it was meant to be so. Voltaire rejects this fatalistic attitude but wants Candide to gradually reject stated opinion, think for himself and free himself from Optimism.

	When fleeing from Europe, Candide still held strongly to Optimism. "Nous allons dans un autre univers; c'est dans celui-là que tout va bien" - He is hoping that there he'll find the best of all possible worlds. But he soon realizes that everywhere is the same. Greed, war, violence, religious persecution are a universal fact.

	On his travel back from the New World, Candide meets Martin who is pessimistic. He goes to the other extreme. Whereas Candide "espérait toujours, ... Martin n'a rien à espérer". Voltaire also rejects this attitude. Nothing in the world is necessarily good or bad. And nothing is necessarily fair. When the ship of the Dutch pirate, who stole Candide's sheep, sinks, Candide said "tu vois que le mal est quelque fois puni..." The Dutch pirate "a vécu le lot qu'il méritait". But Martin adds "faut-il que les passagers du vaisseau périssent aussi. Dieu a puni ce fripon, le diable a noyé les autres".
	
	Candide finally rejects Optimism. The process was slow but gradual. He becomes pragmatic and realizes that man should get on with life. He gives up all metaphysical speculation and decides that work is the remedy which makes life bearable. "Travailler sans raisonner".

	The conclusion  of the book is ambiguous and pessimistic. "Le travail éloigne de nous le trois maux; this is not a philosophical solution to the problem. Voltaire is not giving us an alternative to Optimism in the intellectual sense, but a practical one.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0018.2>


	Candide is a humerous tale of a young man who is completely innocent and is in search of his ideal. However this wit does not swamp the undertones of the serious point Voltaire makes about philisophical optimism. The book is very much the mirror image of Voltaires life as he doesn't believe in optimism. One should simply help others and live in reality within ones limited knowledge. He therefore sets out to prove these points in Candide.

	Voltaire's character Pangloss is the mouthpiece for philosophical optimism and what happens to him serves to denounce optimism. Pangloss believes in divine providence, what happens happens for a reason and for the good of society. It is at this point that Voltaire ridicules this idea. Pangloss contracts syphillis which when you follow it back to its origin comes from the crew of Christopher Columbus's ship when he brought chocolate back fron one of his voyages. Pangloss however claims that he doesn't mind having syphillis because otherwise people wouldn't have known what chocolate was. The reader obviously laughs at this theory of optimism and Voltaire has succeeded in proving what a stupid unethical theory it is. The fact that Pangloss remains adamant in his belief of philosophical optimism could also demonstrate Voltaire's low opinion on those who believe in it.

	Philosophical optimism has the principle that all is for the best and Voltaire tackles this assumption not only through Panglosses suffering but also the suffering of innocent people who are victims. If you are stupid enough to believe in it then you deserve what fate awaits you. However the fact that innocent people are killed serves to condemn this philosophy.

	Voltaire also uses Candide in an attempt to tackle this optimism. Candide is innocent and therefore because his is naieve believes what he is taught. With this optimism he sets out in search of his ideal, this being Cunégonde. This demonstrates how one can go to great lengths to get something they want when in reality they know that they couldn't have it. Optimism therefore serves to disillusion people. Candide will not be satisfied until he reaches his love and when he does she is ugly. His illusions are shattered. On the way he stumbles upon Eldorado, a place one would not expect to find on earth. It is a paradise and yet because of his ideal he leaves it. He has therefore lost out. Voltaire claims that man should reject philosophy in the same way as the old man at the end of the tale and be satisfied to work hard and live within ones limitations. "Cultiver notre jardin".

	Voltaire finally deals with the question of philosophical optimism by contrasting it with pessimism and reality. He does this in the form of other characters. The ana-baptist is more pessimistic like Voltaire. He believes men are born innocent and are then corrupted. He argues against Panglosses ideas. Total pessimism however may not be the answer and so Voltaire creates a medium in the form of Martin. Reality as stated before in the old man's views at the end of the tale seem to be the most logical.

	Voltaire tackles the question in various ways and through all of them conveys his disbelief in this philosophy. He uses wit and ridicule in conjunction with Pangloss and then works on a more serious note when discussing the horrifying effects of the so called everything that happens is for the best concept.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0019.2>

	Voltaire uses a variety of different characters and event in "Candide" to question and criticize the philosophy of optimism, which is eventually rejected by the main protagonist of the book, Candide, having been shown through his journey (a metaphor for the learning process) that all is not "for the best". A central idea to the philosophy of optimism.

	Voltaire uses the character of Pangloss to represent the optimism view point and he uses Pangloss as a vehicle for ridiculing the philosophy. Pangloss's thought is shown to be somewhat ludicrous, he says that, "les nez ont été faites pour les lunetter" using a litote to turn everything around and to seem ridiculous. Pangloss is shown as seeing everything as being "for the best". When he catches syphillis he says that it is a good thing, for without the import of the disease from Southern America we would not have chocolate or cochineal. The idiocy of his argument and the dry dogma he tries to enforce on others, especially Candide, serve to ridicule optimism and denounce it as having any philosophical worth. While Candide lies dying Pangloss philosophises rather than seeking help. Following the terrible earthquake (a real contempory event) Pangloss sees it as being sent from God because those people must die. It was therefore "for the best". He views the drowning of Jacques, following his attempt to help a sailor in distress as also being "for the best". Voltaire therefore questions and rejects optimism and uses Pangloss to acheive this aim.

	The character of Martin is used to introduce the opposite views to optimism, those of pessimism. Martin takes great pleasure in defeating all Candide's hopes of finding his beloved Cunégonde again. Voltaire said that "Martin est manicheen come moi," we could therefore suppose that he is a character close to Voltaire's own views and he is used to show an alternative to optimism which is more realistic. Martin is pessimistic and has had a failed life but he too rejects his philosophy at the end of the novel, thus showing a compromise which is agreable to optimist and pessimist alike.

	Voltaire uses various events which occur during Candide's journey to show how Candide gradually comes to reject optimism and thus argues against the philosophy. Candide is almost flogged to death, he sees the glory and then the mindless destruction  of a battle including the destruction of Castle Thunder-den-tronckh "the earthly paradise" where he met his beloved Cunégonde. When in Eldorado he finds a perfect world where everyone enjoys equality and fraternity, where there is no crime, there is respect for science and where God and man enjoy a close relationship without the influence of priests; he rejects this to carry on his search for Cunégonde. He is forced to resort to violence, he kills her brother for forbidding him to marry her. Yet when he eventually does find Cunégonde she is old and haggard. These events show that "all is not for the best" and reject optimism as a philosophy. Candide has suffered terribly and been shown the best and worst of the world, in what turns out to be a fruitless search for happiness with Cunégonde. He loses his naïevity and is finally able to reject optimism.

	Misery is a common theme in "Candide" and serves to undermine optimism. The old woman's story and that of the slave illustrate this. She started out life in a good position and was beautiful, she has suffered ??? however having been sold into slavery and having lost her buttock. She shows how all is "not for the best" and that misery and suffering are all prevelant. Likewise the negro slave who has lost limbs attempting to flee a sugar plantation. Sugar was seen as being a wonderful discovery which could benefit Europe, but here Voltaire shows the negative side to the story, again illustrating that "all is not for the best".

	The concluding episode of "Candide" shows Voltaire solving the problem of the question of philosophical optimism, it is rejected by the characters and a compromise is found. They are told "il faut cultiver notre jardin". They decide to take action to improve their lives, philosophy is rejected and work replaces it. This gives everyone a positive role to play in improving their lifestyle and activity is accepted by everyone.

	Thus we can see that Voltaire tackles the question of philosophical optimism by ridiculing it, notably through the character of Pangloss and by illustrating its shortfalls through the events and characters which appear during Candide's journey, where he seems to reject optimism. The conclusion of the book is a firm rejection of the philosophy and Voltaire illustrates an alternative method which can be employed.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0020.2>

	Theology claimed that God took man out of the state of nature soon after his conception and wanted him to be unequal but Rousseau disagrees. He believes in the idea of the 'noble savage' with all men being born good & equal. He believes that inequality (and also vice) only developed as society did and attempts to show this in his 'Discours sur l'origine de l'inégalité'.

	Rousseau believed that there were 2 forms of inequality : natural or physical inequality and political or moral inequality. Natural inequality is, as its name suggests, given by nature and has always existed, though not always been noted while moral inequality has various sources. Natural inequality occurs because people have different strengths, looks, talents or gifts. These lead to notions of beauty, merit,...to jealousy & conflict. Such observations of inequality would not have occurred in the state of nature because man rarely met and no comparisons were ever made.

	However, as the numbers of men grew, he spread further, men began to mix more often and developed a sense of moral obligation. Once men lived together, their emotional capacity grew and differences ie, inequalities began to be noted with the beginning of sexual inequality due to a sexual division of labour. This is how simple society developed & the first man who enclosed a piece of land & said "this is mine" developed the property law and thus civilised society. Inequality hardly existed in the state of nature but grew as our faculties,  experience of the human mind did so & was established & legalised by the introduction of property & eventually laws.

	Although inequality already existed this was the 'golden age' & would have continued indefinitely without further development. Man was free & happy while he was independent but unfortunately the division of labour and specialisation made people interdependent & (made labour necessary). This led to the invention of agriculture and further specialisation with various jobs being worth more, earning more. Economic inequality had led to wealth inequality, divided the world into the rich and the poor. Differences in wealth brought about further inequality in rank & social esteem which affected the power one had in society.

	The economic inequality which created the rich and poor had led eventually to power inequality & the concept of the weak & the strong. There was constant conflict between these 2 groups & they were both dependent on 1 another. The poor needed food from the rich while the strong feared a revolt from the weak. This was the state of war that Hobbes believed was natural man, Rousseau believed was the outcome of early society. In order to safeguard their power, the rich devised a clever trick which further underlined & established inequality. This was the introduction of Govt and was a form of constraint involving the giving up of some of one's individual freedom for the good of state. It was unfair & unequal because it meant the poor had to give up their freedom (their only possession) to ensure that the rich kept possession of their goods & property.

	Legislations were required to ensure that the Govt could keep control but their powers were not at first arbitrary. The leaders were elected on merit but were often old and so their titles eventually became hereditary. These hereditary leaders forgot that they were servants of the state & began to call the people their slaves. In other words, hereditary power had become arbitrary & the ideas of the strong about the weak had finished by further increasing inequality with the introduction of a master/slave relationship.

	This inequality in society could also be seen in society where money became more & more important as it was the key to improving one's rank, social position, merit & eventually power. As power became more & more entrusted into the hands of the few, a form of tyranny developed - the outcome of an unequal master, slave situation. The people all became crushed under a single tyrant & thus became equal again. This is a return to a state of nature but is contrary to natural law and encourages corruption, oppression & a form of inequality which is so far removed from the origins of natural man that it can almost be described as equality.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0021.2>


	'Candide' is a conte which seeks to examine the value of philosophical optimism by its application to human life. It is a satirical novel where optimism, as embodied in Pangloss and for a time the hero Candide, is tested against an acute, if not at times ridiculous, portrayal of society. The conte was written to counter the views of Leibnitz and Pope who believed, as Pangloss that all was for the best in the best of all possible worlds. This witty work had profound effect upon the intellectuals of the time, many feeling that it was impossible to hold Leibnitz' philosophy in any degree of esteem after voltaire so successfully exposed it.

	While the conte is an application of optimism to life so as to destroy its credulity Voltaire also seeks to present its opposite pessemism as an equally distorting and negative philosophy. He manages to present these views through characters who lack personality but maintain a philosophical identity, albeit in many cases perversely.

	 The conte is a journey for Candide and the reader. Voltaire achieves a good deal of success in this approach since as Candide travels and expands his physical and intellectual horizons so the reader journeys also. The structure of the work reinforces this as it is symmetrical. Candide travels away from Westephalia armed with his philosophy of optimism only to meet with despair. He meets Cacombo (a pragmatic realist) and together they find El Dorado which lies both at the centre of the conte and of Voltaire's aspirations. El Dorado can rightly be seen as a heaven on earth. It is a place free from the evils that have been encountered in the preceeding parts of the work. Candide however does not seek to stay in El Dorado and leaves to travel back towards Europe in the company of Martin who epitomises pessimism. The second half of the conte is an examination of pessimism and it culminates in a uniting of the main characters in the conte and Candide making his own choice about philosophy. Candide began his journey armed with the ignorance of a closeted life and an inculcated philosophy of optimism. By adopting such a structured approach Voltaire opens the readers mind with Candide's, allowing the reader to progress from a state of ignorance with the hero. This literary technique is important in considering how Voltaire tackles the issue of optimism in the novel. It must be said that he does so without exerting any of the force of his personality on the work in any overt manner and although the constant recurrence of people supposed to be dead is at times absurd the light humour of the novel overcomes any indignation or hostility on the part of the reader.

	 Secondly the treatement of optimism in the novel must be considered in a substantial way. Voltaire, like many appreciates the human condition as can embody both states of good and bad according to the position of the person experiencing it. The optimists do not experience great difficulty in explaining the state of goodness which involves human pleasure however they do seek to explain human suffering away as being truly for the individuals good although experience would dictate otherwise. This blinkered approach can not really epitomise a valid philosophy Voltaire realised that it was distorting and repugnant to any idea of humanists. Candide leaves Westephalia, where he has never been exposed to any type of suffering only to encounter a world where both he and others suffer in abundance. Voltaire does not seek to counter the necessity of suffering as part of our condition but is repulsed by the attitude of the individuals who constitute the church, who induce suffering innescessairily. The auto da fé clearly shows this. Here people are made to suffer to appease God a theory which arose from the superstition and dogmatic approach of the church. Voltaire makes no attempt to subvert the church as an idea but exposes the inadequacy of its members (example the syphilis being spread by a monk).

	 The idea of pre-ordination which seems to underly the philosophy of optimism is also rebutted by Voltaire. Once again he does not do so explicitly, merely by exposing the fallacy of the arguement. Pangloss' theory that we have glasses thus noses its obviously laughable but what is more repulsive however is the optimists view that pre-ordination pre-supposes passivity to whatever happens. This is exposed as James the virtuous Anabaptist drowns in Lisbon harbour, this man, an epitomy of true virtue is left to die by Pangloss who states that by the theory of pre-ordination Lisbon harbour was created so that he could die there.

	Ultimately Candide rejects optimism and adopts a policy which is devoid of phillosophical abstraction as he goes to work upon his condition. "Il faut cultiver le jardin". This does allow him the free will to ameliorate his lot which the theory of preordination opposes and while not rejecting suffering as an intrinsic part of our condition he seeks to avoid it as it is repugnant to our human feeling.

	Although Candide finally achieves a certain degree of philosophical stability albeit in rather unfortunate circumstances he has it must be remembered left of his own volition the paradise of El Dorado. He did this because of his human lust and desires. Once he had achieved 'the best of all possible worlds' that the optimists would envisage he forced himself to leave, driven by individual feeling and free will they would have difficulty acknowledging. El Dorado was free from religious dogmatics and greed based on social avarice but more fundamentally it was based on hard work which established and maintained a condition free from the evils which plagued the rest of the world. Voltaire realised that one could not prevent the natural disasters such as plagued Lisbon but one could diminish the human element of suffering in a world which was quite clearly not the best of all possible worlds.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0022.2>


	Candide written in 1757 is a 'conte philosophique' describing a metaphysical journey of discovery. Various themes are prevalent throughout the book. One of the most dominant being that of Optimism.

	The idea of Optimism is represented by the philosopher Pangloss who preaches his philosophy at every turn even in the face of adversity. His belief is that everything is for the best, even the death of two hundred thousand in the earthquake at Lisbon is deemed as God's will and for the good of mankind. For Pangloss every cause must have an effect, for example at the beginning of the story, Cunégonde dropping her handkerchief, led to Candide kissing her and therefore the beginning of his path of misery. Pangloss' philosophical optimism is something which is unobtainable, the good in the world does not necessarily make up for the bad. Pangloss is a pedant, remaining true to his philosophy without considering anything else.

	 Throughout the narrative Voltaire subtly attacks the idea of Optimism, as first put forward by Leibniz in 1721. He does this by showing the illogical traversity of it which Pangloss parrots throughout the story and jutaxposes it with a catalogue of diasters and human suffering eg/ rape, pillage war. Candide travels and search for Cunégonde and by extension happiness is tested by every possible means. At first Candide determindly follows Pangloss' theory of Optimism, but towards the end begins to doubt it and finally rejects it after meeting the Negro slave in Surinam left lying naked at the side of the road, with an arm and a leg missing, by his master. This represents a turning point, Candide becomes his own judge and rejects the idea of philosophical optimism. He is however deceived by appearance, for example abbé from Périgod, seeming happiness of Paquette and Giroflée.

	It would be all too easy for Candide having rejected the theory of Optimism to accept Martin's Manichean system, where everything that happens is for the worst. Martin believed that 'one would be as badly off wherever one lived'. However this system is once again proved wrong as Cacambo, Candide's manservant remains faithful disproving Martin's theory that Cacambo would run off with the money collected from Elderado. We can therefore assume that Voltaire is attacking Optimism in its context of a system, just as he criticises other systems in the book, such as the Church system, the military system and the caste system. The idea of a system is inhuman, both Pangloss and Martin use the facts to suit their systems rather than keeping an open and 'candid' mind.

	Candide's journey represents a journey from falsity to reality via an ideal. The true idea of Optimism can be seen in Elderado, where people live life and enjoy it and always look at the bright side of things. Elderado replaces the castle of Thunder-ten-tronkh as the garden of Eden. Deism is the only religion and people give thanks to God rather than asking for things. At the Castle of Thunder-ten-tronkh, Candide believed wholeheartedly in Pangloss' theory of Optimism, but faced with reality in the real world he finds it hard to reconcile human suffering and tragedy as being for the best.

	Voltaire shows that we must act even though our scope for action may be limited, we should stop searching for some abstract meaning to live and merely 'cultivate our own garden'. The idea of Optimism as a system is totally unacceptable and this is seen throughout Candide.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0023.2>
	
	Voltaire tackles many major issues in his novel "Candide", yet he manages to do so in a satirical and often amusing manner. He appears to have grasped the roots of these issues, and proceeded to shake them violently in a manner that is very appealing to the reader. Such issues include Leibniz's theory of Optimism, where everything that occurs, is for the best; attacking the Church, the search for happiness and greed in society. With Candide as Voltaire's mouthpiece, he embarks on voyages that will take him all over the world.

	The primary episode in the book describes in a jovial manner the castle of Baron Thunder-den-tronckh as being a paradise and even having windows. The importance of money can be seen from the start. In Lisbon, after the earthquake, the sailor wants to find spoils from the twins. When Candide arrives in Eldorado, he learns how foreigners viewed the West Europeans as strange when it came to money, as Candide was shocked to see jewels in the dirt, and the locals apparently not knowing their value. Returning to Europe laden with diamonds and jewels, Candide attracts all sorts of new acquaintances who want only his money.

	Voltaire examines Optimism closely in Candide. There are many occasions where Leibniz's ...



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0024.2>

	Throughout "Candide", the question of optimism is unceasingly given philosophical forum by Candide's recalling of Pangloss's influential words : "Tout est pour le bien dans ce, le meilleur des mondes".

	This philosophical indoctrination of his childhood leads him to conclude the presence of a natural order of 'goodness' whatever calamity befalls him. Thrown into the confusion of the Bulgar war and consequently put on trial, he is in a position to "choisit" to be either "fusillé" or "fustigé". His unflagging optimism that everything is for the best in the eyes of some Divine Providence renders him grateful for such a choice.

	Even though Pangloss is only present in a few chapters, his optimistic philosophy is constantly thrown into ridicule by Candide's disastrous encounters. Cunégonde is supposedly raped and disembodied, Jaques is killed while a bandit is saved, Candide himself is betrayed, cheated, robbed and flogged, his childhood "paradis" is increasingly shown to be little more glamourous than a horses stable compared to his adult visions, and the daughter of a pope (la vieille) recounts a life history of unspeakable misfortune. Nevertheless, Pangloss insists on reveering Leibniz, when Voltaire mocked : 

	"Je suis toujours de mon premier sentiment, car enfin, je suis philosophe,... Leibniz ne pouvant avoir tort".

	Candide's hope of finding his beloved is continually nurtured. She has become his reason for all, yet seems so often to slip through his fingers. He hears of her infidelity, her suffering, and eventually her ugliness and disagreable nature, but is still of the opinion that everything is for the best, and if, once, she agreed to be his wife, it was for the natural order of goodness in the world. 

	Aspects of the tale show the dependability by various degrees of certain situations and characters. In contrast to Pangloss, Martin is convinced that no-one is really content, that everything isn't for the best, and that nobody ever lived who didn't, at least once, wish to die. Martin can depend on the very awfulness of life. He proves Candide wrong in betting that Paquette and her monk companion are, contrary to their appearance, melancholy. By inviting them to dinner and hearing their misfortune, Candide's optimism shakes somewhat, but is renewed in its vigour at the prospect of their being able to make their lives more bearable. Pessimistic Martin, convinced that they will squander Candide's generosity, is once again proved correct. Martin remains unmoved and unsurprised by the six sovereign's ill-luck, and questions Candide's concern.

	Cacambo, however, lends huge optimism  to Candide's predicaments. Candide, sure of imminent death after Cunégonde's brother's murder, teeters on the brink of pessimism, but Cacambo, many times placed in such a situation, exhibits unflailing resolve and determination. He is conveyed as some sort of valet-extra-ordinaire; an interpreter, a  traveller and an entrepreneur.

	 Their arrival in Eldorado would ideally seem set to be a conclusion, a reward for their continual misfortune. This is Voltaire's optimistic reverie -ideal government, no social evils- near Utopia. But Candide's quest for Cunégonde is of priority, and they decide, foolishly in the eyes of the king, to leave.

	"Quand on est passablement bien quelque part, il faut s'y tenir".

	But Candide is optimistic enough not to regret the renouncing of such perfection, believing that it is to be found elsewhere -in marital bliss with his beloved. Eldorado is seen as the embodiment of the Zenith of Candide's optimism. Description of its architectural, scientific and gastronomic excellence seem ridiculously exaggerated, as if all that is wished for in hope, is ultimately realised.

	However, optimism becomes more of a challenge as Eldorado becomes more distanced. Candide's hope of wealth is slowly questioned as first he loses his one hundred sheep laden with diamonds and gold, and is then cheated by the Dutch pirate. As if some justice is being carried out in the equal distribution of wealth, Candide is suddenly confronted with having to buy the freedom of a large number of people. Paquette doesn't even thank him for his gift, Cunégonde's brother refuses to give up his now foolishly-misplaced aristocratic prejudices, and in an attempt to get to Venice, Candide loses his last sheep in being cheated. He is fined by a judge for knocking insolently, and is even charged for a ludicrously ineffective hearing. To cap it all, his health is in question. At this point in the tale, he is without hope, and is sure never to see Cunégonde again.

	The vision of a plaintive, red sheep swimming towards him after the Dutchman's shipwreck, is enough to restore his optimism. But Candide dismisses the selfish reality that his optimism is only related to his own personal gain. Martin asks morosely why God saved the sheep but killed the innocent passengers on the ship. Candide has no time for such lines of questionning not immediately relative to himself.

	However, Candide's unceasing reveer for his master's philosophy seems to be waning : 
	
	"O! Pangloss...Qu'est-ce que ce monde-ci?"

	He cries in anguish. And on seeing Le nègre de Surinam, horribly disfigured,

	"...Pangloss...tu n'a pas deviné...cette abomination"

	Having lived a multitude of experiences since leaving Thunder-den-tronckh, in retrospective objectivity, he finally announces

	"Je me suis souvent aperçu que tout était mal en Vestphalie".

	Candide eventually has no desire to marry Cunégonde, and does so purely out of duty (fired by the Baron's ill-feeling). His optimism has taken a variety of courses; Cunégonde is deformed and bitter, but the reader is left with the pleasing knowledge that she has become good at making pastry. And Pangloss, still obsessed with causes, effects, and his "raison suffisante" announces that if they had never been expelled from Thunder-ten-tronckh and been cheated, hanged and ill-treated, they wouldn't be eating the delicious pistachio nuts.

	"Cela est bien dit, mais il faut cultiver notre jardin"

is Candide's reply. Pangloss seems reluctant to work, and Candide

	"Qui a été élevé de ne juger de rien que lui-même"

seems to have moved away from unceasing praise of his old master towards realism.
