
<ICLE-BR-SUR-0001.1>

Oreste's birthplace was Argos and on the death of his father, the king (who was, incidentally, murdered) he was taken away to Athens to be brought up there by a noble family. When he returns to Argos, he cannot feel a part of the city for the simple reason that he is innocent, and feels innocent, whereas all those citizens born in Argos and living there, have supposedly been born into guilt. The whole point of the play seems to be an attack on the Church and religion (especially Catholic) which holds good considering Sartre's atheism.

The whole city of Argos is in perpetual mourning and repentence for a murder which happened unbeknown to many of them: for those who were around, guilt is theirs for not having prevented the atrocity. The Queen's mournful clothing and black funereal make-up emphasize the point: there is no happiness in the city. They are all allowing themselves to be ruled by the past and, in fact, seem to be in a time-warp, not moving forward, not even seeing their futures. All the features Sartre placed in the play show an exaggerated set-up of the real world and its religion. The fact that religion tells us we are guilty because we are human and we live governed by the murder of Christ which happened unbeknown to us, but we must still repent this sin. A significant attribute is the plague of flies around and in Argos, to enhance the picture of being totally enclosed and "attacked" by something which Sartre implies is all in the mind. This ability to shock his audience was an attribute he found very powerful and positive, in that he was thus guaranteed their attention and a reaction. Here, he has even placed a god "on earth" as it were, as if to prove that they are in fact no greater than us and the fact that they can produce miracles, has no bearing on their power over us and does in no way justify our servitude under them.

Then, enter Oreste. As the Christ of our bible, he enters his homeland innocent and totally apart from the citizens of Argos. Nobody is laughing and the stark, brutal morbidity of the city and its "tradition" hits him hard: <quote>.
He is incomplete and unfinished, looking to find an identity with his birthplace. At this point he still believes in the guidance of the deity and is amazed by Jupiter's miracles. However, this does not last for long. In this play, Sartre's object was to show the development of Oreste from innocence to knowledge and understanding: it is well to note that Oreste starts from nothing. All existentialists seem to pass through a stage of nihilism although recognised as the temporary stage it is, and this seems to be significant in that starting from zero is how your character or nature can accept life and mortality, being honest and knowing the truths, yet living freely and with choice: <quote>.

He emphasizes the people's bad faith in denying themselves freedom and in not choosing their own destinies. Sartre was particularly against letting oneself be ruled by the past: what's done is done, life must go on. Here, he also parodies the Easter resurrection and celebration of the French Catholic Church with the "Fêtes des Morts": the people being ruled by the past. The people believe that the dead of the city return to "live" among them to make them suffer for their deaths. The play shows the farcical nature of such a practice: the Catholic Church has the spirit of Christ returning to Earth in much the same way. Here, he is trying to show that the dead only "live" in the minds of the people; their "religion", repentence and guilt are only in their minds. Jupiter ironically tells Oreste: <quote>.

Only Electre seems lively enough to want out of this city. However she is, like many, a coward. She believes in some Messiah, in the form of her brother, coming to save her. She refuses to do anything constructive herself to deny the despotism underway in Argos and ultimately when Oreste arrives refuses to help him and tells him to leave them alone. She seems to parody the average man, here, who will complain violently about his life, his situation, what he could have been if only "X" had not happened or "Y" had not prevented him: yet this person will refuse to attempt to change his position. To Sartre this is bad faith: the refusal to admit your own freedom and to take responsibility for your own actions.

Oreste only decides to stay in Argos because of Electre: she sparks him into action, although his pride and search for an identity back her up. This has a good existentialist choice: facing up to your problems, not running away, taking responsibility for what you are doing. Oreste is now abandoned and alone: realizing your freedom and accepting it means defamiliarization and solitude. This springs from Sartre's idea of the condemned man: man is condemned to be free.

Oreste also faces anguish, a large concern of Sartre's in his proffering of the existentialist ideology. Oreste is taking the responsibilities of a nation/city on his shoulders, moving forward into an uncertain future: the decision is his, and his alone, and he is alone in making it.

Oreste then rejects Jupiter's help. Jupiter is portrayed here as the god of guilt and death; he is also portrayed elsewhere as the god of love. I find this rather ironic: the christian God is known as the "God of love", yet it is His religion that says we are guilty and it is He who makes us mortal: how in the world do we worship such tyranny?

Oreste's rejection of religion leaves him feeling he's lost something. This is the defamiliarization. Abandoned also by his sister he is alone. Yet, while Electre accepts Jupiter's guidance, he who will give a meaning to your life, she sinks further and further into the depths of despair, while Oreste, who has asserted his mental power and freedom, survives. When the truth has been recognised, and religion rejected, the gods have no power left: Jupiter disappears. Oreste's actions prove that man can stand alone and survive: they don't need any powers on high to direct them. 

Oreste murders the king and queen, and stands before the crowds who are looking to kill him. This is a typical human reaction, and reminiscent of the Jews Christ was desperate to help. Change makes lives uncertain, and taking away a ruler means people have to decide for themselves and therefore have no-one but themselves to blame for any wrongs in their lives. When Oreste announces his coronation he also announces that he will be leaving Argos. His decision to do this is reminiscent of Christ: he sacrificed his innocence to give the people their freedom and will leave so that they can exercise that freedom (Christ dies, he leaves). If he stayed, they would be living under his rules and that would simply be replacing one totalitarian state by another. He has shown them their freedom and it now up to them to accept it and do what they will. He tells them: <quote> so that they do not have to repent for his crime. He found his freedom in Argos, and he, in return, has given Argos its freedom. The citizens now have the choice to develop their projects and move from the past into the future. Significantly the flies leave Argos; it is back to "l'état pur", from where everything can begin anew.



Caligula's change of nature comes after his sister's death, a sister with whom he was very much in love, up to the point of being, or almost being, incestuous. He disappears alone to think about everything, and returns to the court to proclaim that a note? would be enlisted to kill the citizens.

Throughout the first scenes, especially, there is a repetition of "rien", perhaps reflecting Caligula's numbness of feeling, his loss, his defamiliarization and perhaps including echoes of the nihilism of existentialist experience. The once religious, calm, literary and respected leader, has now become a tyrant, killing at whim and ruthlessly callous in his treatment of his citizens. His personal revolt causes a revolution in his Empire whereby he has lower servants working in responsible administrative positions and vice versa, much to the patricians disgust. Yet despite all the atrocities he commits, I don't believe the audience ever really hates Caligula and I do believe that Camus manages to evoke both sympathy and admiration for him.

To begin with, Caligula first loses his sister, and implied lover, which will evoke sympathy from the start. He realises that love does not last forever, and this hurts. At this point, I feel that Caligula would probably want to commit suicide, but as Le Mythe de Sysyphe advocates living to a maximum in the face of mortality, I believe that Caligula embarks on a quasi-suicide, inviting death to him as he begins his tyranny. It is simply a matter of how far he can push the people before they react, how passive are they. The fact that he does want to die and now feels so alone reinforces the sympathy aspect.

There is logic behind Caligula's act. If death is the only truth we have, an idea proferred in Le Mythe, and death conquers all, then death must be right and he decides to become an apostle of death. Everything he stands for becomes aligned to death: he chrystallises death. In bringing people's lives to a premature end he instills insecurity, fear and anxiety into his citizens and as such gives them a heightened awareness of the importance of living. In this way, Caligula is in fact doing them a favour by presenting the absurd to his citizens (and expressly to the audience). It seems to me a sort of perverse cruel-to-be-kind type of rule.

In acknowledging the absurdity of life, Caligula becomes a lonely figure. He has detached himself from the solidarity with mankind and lost sight of himself in relation to the "grandeur of the cosmos" and has, in Camus' words, moved into the "desert" of exile. And yet, he has done so because he realised <quote>. He wants to act out the impossible in order to change this: <quote> - this seems symbolic in that the moon is associated with night and darkness and what he really wants is for man not to die: man falls into darkness when he dies, the black for mourning all seem to suggest to me that the moon refers to man's "night", that is his death. Maybe he's just calling for his own death. However he does refer to changing the universe, achieving the impossible so that men no longer die and are as such happy. He takes on the form of a god demanding deaths, proclaiming famines: <quote>.

Although I have said that his ideas are logical, they are not moral, and by presenting such an extreme figure as Caligula, Camus is showing us the dangers of taking freedom too far and not finding oneself any limits.

He is persistent in his actions, willing to follow his proclamations to the very end. <quote>
He provides a perfect example of living an experience to the maximum, following Don Juan and the others of Le Mythe. Here, unfortunately, he has chosen to kill to the maximum: all acts are equal in the long run, aren't they? One tends to feel sorry for him because he seems to be so full of grief and despair, as if trying to hit out at someone, to take revenge, for the blow that has been dealt to him.

I don't believe we cannot sympathise with him when such characters as Cherea, Scipion, Caesonia and Helicon never hate him and even sympathise with him themselves. The interrelation of characters is very important. The fact that the patricians hate him is not really significant: they are shallow, old and very negative characters. Caligula does right to mock them when one insists on the importance of "le Trésor" over everything else. At least Caligula is aware of what is important in life: the fact that he takes life from others seems symbolic with his desire for death himself, forcing people to be unhappy (<quote>) and ultimately to make people aware of their situation and to react.

On the other hand Cherea and Scipion are very positive figures. They are both pure characters, have depth and understand Caligula's logic althought they don't agree with it. Helicon loves and respects Caligula although again does not agree with him. Caesonia acts on Caligula's behalf and follows him devotedly because she loves him. Scipion admits to loving Caligula for having taught him that although life was hard, there was religion, art and literature to save you from despair. Although Caligula has moved from this now to seeing and understanding the absurd, the others still believe in those things. Caligula has taken it on himself to be their instructor on life and sacrifices himself to give them the freedom to accept responsibility for their own lives and decisions, and to realise the absurd. They have to learn revolt: "human insurrection is a prolonged protest against death". They have to learn the importance of their lives and therefore want to preserve it and make the most of it: they have to revolt against everything that tries to reduce their freedom and reduce their lives.

Camus did not advocate despair, which was an option for Caligula. He takes on the revolt Camus wants us to assume, and in doing so takes responsibility for himself and his acts, answerable to no-one else.

Camus often used tragedy to get across his ideas. He felt that the tragic form of the play allowed the audience to become more emotionally involved and they therefore became more accessible.

The very fact that Caligula admits he was wrong at the end sparks off sympathy and even admiration. <quote> . Even as he kills Caesonia, he realises that killing her for being guilty of being human was not the solution. He is emotional, up to a point, especially at the end; and no-one can ignore emotion. He realises he's been wrong and sees the innocence of others who have not committed his crimes. He basically realises that the only truth we know is death and though we still, and must continue to, strive for other truths we will never find any. The play shows the need to find limits through experience and here shows an example of a stubborn human nature persistant to the end. 

Although death is inevitable one must overpower it, not let it rule our lives but always be aware of it and revolt. Poor Caligula had death in everything he did.

The symbolic smashing of the mirror at the end of the play signifies his death. He dies knowing that he has driven the pure Scipion and reasonable Cherea to the crime they were condemning him for; he dies knowing that he has made them at least aware of the importance of their lives and that they could not have access to the absurd.


Hugo joins the party, as do most intellectuals, on a guilt trip, to escape their bourgeois backgrounds and to become a part of the working class movement. They can bring prestige to the party and promote it, but most of the time intellectuals simply import their personal hang-ups and anguishes and are dangerous due to the liability to stray or their unreliability resultant of their backgrounds.

The political parties went through phases of embracing or rejecting intellectuals, and Sartre wrote this play in the middle of a freeze period. He was well aware of the hostilities and prejudices aimed at intellectuals and these became apparent in the course of the play with Louis and the bodyguards distrust of Hugo. Louis empitimises??? the Communist party next??? to intellectuals, being extremely negative and hostile towards Hugo. He not only calls him an anarchist, but tells him he is undisciplined and untrustworthy.

Hugo is a young man looking for a family environment and for some security. He is not really political, but is rebelling against the bourgeois establishment which symbolises for him the lonliness and cruelty of his childhood. He is looking to grow up and seeks to do it on a one-to-one basis with other people, being very aware of others' reactions to him. He can therefore never integrate into the party. He will not be subordinated, putting his views before those of the Moscow central line. He is basically a capitalist of nature, selfish, individualistic and very self-concerned. He, in fact, admits to not liking people very much - they don't care for him, so why should he for them? As Hoederrer tells him: <quote>. He reacts emotionally and personally to all issues in the play - he is not at all politically minded, which is apparent in his dealings with other characters. While Hoederrer has great command, radical thinking and diplomacy, the true politicians, Hugo fumbles and grabs at issues, behaving patronisingly towards the guards. He cannot deal with people: he feels threatened and insecure due to the existence of other people. This is reminiscent of Sartre's thought: "hell is other people". He takes a guilt trip in front of the Prince and Karsky and attacks them and what they represent with hostility and hatred. He also attacks Hoederrer in front of them for conspiring to unite with them, undermining his authority and showing the complete lack of obedience and discipline he claims to lack. <quote> 

He actually asked for the job to murder Hoederrer, thinking this would bring him respect and prestige in the party, but especially from Louis and Olga. <quote> He does not want to kill for the right reasons, because it is in line with the party's desires and to preserve its security; he has romantic dreams about being a hero on his return and being grown up and accepted as one of the gang. Hoederrer says how intellectuals always want to act but if he killed anyone it would ruin him because he is an intellectual. Hugo takes the name of a romantic character of Dostoyevsky's and says he will kill himself if caught, in true dramatic fashion. But once in Hoederrer's household, the reality seems almost too much for him. He risks many lives by his inability and indecision over whether to perform the murder. Therefore he is dangerous. He is not mature enough and whole enough as a person to be able to fight for others' causes. He's is still fighting for his own. His great desire and hang-up here is to have people to trust him: <quote>. He repeats this like a child all the way through. In fact he is very much the child. His ultimate act of murder was committed on an impulse not really out of jealousy and certainly not for the party's sake. He was just annoyed that Hoederrer had time for someone else: he wanted all his time and attention, for himself and for him alone: <quote>

He has no clear perception of the future and how. What tactics would best promote the good of the party. He believes in hitting out and hitting hard, regardless of the consequences. He fails to see that concession which Hoederrer advocated would bring long-term benefits for the party. Unlike the honest, straightforward Hoederrer, Louis wanted a pure revolution: no lying, no concessions, but no real meaning either. To him everything was black and white with no inbetween. That is why he tragically walks to his death at the end: he has no thought for the good of the party, he has no thought of loyalty or what he owed to the party either. He simply refused to give in, stood by the principles he held on to so tightly and walked to his death, ever the tragic hero. He says of himself: <quote>. He realises himself that he is superfluous, that he has no meaning in his life and that he is a living sole which is unneeded. He feels that proving himself would give him that meaning: he failed to understand that the party wanted action for the right motives: it was not <quote>, they were not there to aid personal promotion and security on an individual level, to ease personal anguish and despair.

Even Hugo's marriage to Jessica seemed to be a complete failure. They were two immature characters playing at being grown-up. The fact that he married her anyway, and the photos of his childhood that he kept meant he refused to totally cut himself off from his background. Joining the party seems to have been an act to get back at his father, perhaps humiliate him, rather than one which was seriously thought out and carried out from conviction belief in the party's line.

Never at any time does he seem to be at one with the party. He deals on an individualistic level, on a one-to-one basis. He doesn't even know why he killed Hoederrer: <quote>. 

If he had been a true and dedicated party member, he would have accepted the party's changed line of action and slipped back into the party without objections. Unfortunately he took the matter personally and felt they were attacking him. It was not only Louis who rejected Hugo's participation in the party. Hoederrer too realized that Hugo did not fit and was an outsider, although as is expected, he did so with more diplomacy than Louis.

Hugo was simply reaching out for help. He was looking for guidance and being relatively apolitical himself simply wanted to lift the bourgeois out of power as a sort of revenge: beyond that he did not care what happened. He wanted to be needed, to feel important, but individualistic needs were not to be sought in a revolutionary Communist group. His lack of security simply meant he was a liability to the party.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0002.1>

The arguments voiced by Dora in 'Les Justes' were taken up again by Camus as the basis of 'L'homme révolté'. When she admits fears that others will come after them who will use their actions as justification to commit crimes without <quote> as Kaliayev puts it, this is also Camus' view when he says in 'L'homme révolté' that revolution has evolved since the days of the <quote> from their decision of <quote> to the stage where revolutionaries now have their own offices. The thought that as soon as revolt became politicized, it lost its nature as a rejection of the absurd.

To come back to 'Les Justes', however, Dora remarks that it is easier to die for life's contradictions than to live them. For the <quote> in Russia in 1905, the main contradiction facing them was, given the innate value of human life, how could they reconcile themselves to assassinating the leaders of the Cszarist régime? This is shown by Kaliayev's failure to throw the bomb at first because of the children; Stepan, a nihilist revolutionary whose views were much echoed by the French Communists in their later criticisms of 'L'homme révolté', argues that Kaliayev should have thrown it anyway. By saving those two children, Kaliayev was forcing thousands more to die of starvation. But Dora maintains, that if Kaliayev had thrown the bomb, then the Organisation would have lost its support. Voicing Camus' notion of 'la mesure', she tells Stepan: <quote>

The revolutionaries seem to justify their killing by the fact that, after taking the life of the Grand Duke, Kaliayev will pay with his own. By focalising their attentions on the ideas the Grand Duke represents, it is easier for them to forget his worth as a human being. Kaliayev is excited when he is allowed to throw the first bomb, <quote>. And in Act IV, he tells Skowatov, <quote>. Skowatov counters <quote>

There seems also to be some ambiguity in the idea of innocence too. When the Grand Duchess visits Kaliayev, she tells him that he may as well have thrown the bomb at the children as their mother is 'injuste'. She does not even give money to the poor, whereas the Grand Duke used to drink with the peasants. Kaliayev asserts however, <quote> and goes on <quote>

Throughout the play runs the theme of 'fraternité'. Those in the Organisation address each other as 'frère', but despite this sense of camaraderie, there is equally a sense of solitude. Dora and Kaliayev are constrained by their commitment to the Organisation not to avow their love for each other. As Kaliayev explains to the Grand Duchess <quote> 

Dora also is worried by the distance separating the Organisation and the people it is fighting for. She is uncertain that their goals are the same and is concerned at the 'silence', which is perhaps linked to the 'bruit terrible' when Kaliayev is hanged.

The main contradiction of the play is that between the ideal of the revolutionaries of a society which gives life a chance, but which, in order to be obtained, involves death. As Camus wrote in 'Lettre à un ami allemand', <quote>

This argument arises in the dialogue in the first act between Stepan and Kaliayev, which can also be said to mirror the later dispute between Sartre and Camus. Sartre, the philosopher, argued that any means were justifiable in attaining the end, but Camus, the moralist did not agree. As Kaliayev says, <quote>

But as Dora announces in the final act, <quote>. In her haste to be reunited with Kaliayev, Dora volunteers herself to be the one who throws the first bomb in the next attack. <quote>, i.e. but committing murder, then paying for it with her own life, she will find Yanek again. But how much of this desire is actually a decision to commit suicide as alluded to by her remarks in the question, even though suicide itself was rejected by Camus in "Le Mythe de Sisyphe"? Does this manifest yet another 'contradiction' in the play? By throwing the bomb in the first place, is that not an active step towards their own death, which could be interpreted as a suicidal tendency?




In 'Caligula', Camus shows us the adverse effects of an overreaction to the 'absurdity' of life. But such a reaction is understandable, if we consider 'Le Mythe de Sisyphe' where Camus expresses his refusal to slip back into a blank acceptance of the ridiculous and pointless routine of human existence. Camus argues that suicide could be contemplated as a way out of this situation, but passes a value judgement that human life is worth more than that - an active attempt to remedy the situation must be made. Caligula does just this, and it has been argued that his decision to found the happiness of his people on the murder of thousands of their number in order to make them more aware of the uncertainty of life is actually justifiable.

The play begins with allusions to Caligula's grief at Drusilla's death and his resulting disappearance. When he returns, he has undergone a 'realisation' that <quote>. What he would like to achieve, by obtaining the moon or something <quote>, is a state wherein <quote>. Quite laudable intentions really, but the way he goes about it is where the problem lies.

To draw the attention of his people to the absurdity of life, he stresses the uncertainty of their lives by killing thousands of them. He sees no difference in any values as death is inevitable in any case so all judgements therefore are reduced to the same values. When he closes the wheat market and imposes an artificial famine, Caligula is unable to distinguish between his satiety at mealtimes and the hunger of his people. He has no qualms at raping a woman in front of her husband. And given the inevitability of death, what does it matter if he advances it somewhat?

Through Caligula's own dialogue, and through the opinions of Cherea, we are shown that there is a logic to Caligula's approach. Caligula insists on following this logic through to the completion of his project, <quote>.

Whereas, however, Caligula is adamant in sticking to his rather demented approach, Cherea puts forward the balancing argument that there is already some happiness on earth amidst the absurdity and it is surely better to grasp that, than to cause more unhappiness. Caesonia is of this opinion too, <quote>.

Caligula manifests an appreciation of nature (after all, before the death of Drusilla, <quote>) and in his dialogue with 'le jeune Scipion', he expresses his despair at the futility of the beauty of nature. What is its purpose and what point is there in appreciating it, if when you die, there is no possibility of benefiting from that appreciation.

At the end of the play, Caligula undergoes another realization that <quote>. So in a way, Caligula can be seen as undergoing a positive apprenticeship. He starts off in a state of ignorance, after Drusilla's death he realises the absurd nature of life, and after many misdemeanours he realises too that killing is not the way out. He does not however find the solution, and we are left with Cherea's alternative of 'making the best of it'. Caligula is not a totally abhorrent character in this play. Camus gives him personable characteristics such as his appreciation of nature, and we are told of his character before the beginning of the play, i.e. <quote>. His reaction to the realization is understandable even if it cannot be condoned, and it leads in the end to his 'suicide'. In other words, he lets himself be killed, seeing no other way out for himself nor for his people.



Louis is indeed correct in his assertion that Hugo is of no use to the Party. Hugo is more concerned with how the Party can help him carry out his one great act which would completely remove him from his middle-class background and lead to his full integration into the Party than how he can best serve the Party. Hugo is not however so much of an anarchist as an idealist. Through this one act, he feels he would emerge as a man and would be able to stop <quote>. But Olga refutes his romantic idealism, telling him bluntly that the Party <quote>.

The dichotomy separating Hugo's idea of what the Party can do for him and the Party's notion of what he can best do for them is further emphasised in the dialogue with Hoederer. Hoederer is given longer speeches, is more rational in his argument whereas Hugo is emotional and reactionary. Hoederer is a realist whose decision to compromise with the Prince and Karsky now so as to have a better chance of seizing power is seen by Hugo as anathema to the Party's ideology; Hoederer's view that the means justifies the end is repudiated by Hugo who clutches to ideological priority. Hugo sees everything in dialectical opposition. He sees issues as plainly right or wrong, black or white, not realising that in reality there are very grey areas between the two. There is however a paradox in Hugo's tenacity for ideological purity yet in his willingness to kill. Hoederer would enter into a compromise that would not only ensure the Party's place in the Government but which would also save thousands of Illyrian lives, but Hugo rejects this, saying the true way to attain power is the revolution, even if it does cause many deaths. He would even be prepared for the strict and perhaps violent imposition of Party rule if it was not generally accepted, as Hoederer argues would be the case, if they were installed by the Red Army. Yet as Hoederer tells Hugo, <quote>, when it comes to straying from the Party line. He uses his ideas as a shield so that he will not have to act, and as Louis says, he works only <quote>.

When he does finally act, it is not in reaction to Olga's demands that the job has to be done <quote>, after Hugo has delayed action. His one chance of salvation, of accession to manhood, of freeing himself from his middle-class background is Hoederer, but it is Hoederer he kills. While Jessica to some extent undergoes a positive apprenticeship pattern (apathy at first, then through Hoederer comes to realisation and knowledge and leaves Hugo), Hugo almost undergoes a negative pattern. He starts off isolated in his middle-class background, he joins the Party but does not feel fulfilled nor does he really fit in as he doesn't like people. His qualifying test would be murdering Hoederer which he does finally do, but he is not sure of his motives (<quote>). It was probably more out of disappointment with his father-figure, Hoederer, than jealousy over Jessica, whom he never really loved. Then when he goes back to Olga, he finds that the murder need never have taken place as Moscow has now decreed that the Party follow just such a line of compromise. Hugo is very out of touch with the rest of the Party. When he first meets Louis and Olga, he takes them almost as rôle-models and so is doubly shocked that, after thinking they were ideological purists too, they proved to be realists like Hoederer. Unable and unwilling to compromise, Hugo refuses to re-enter the Party and decides to let himself be killed. This constitutes his one major act, but as it results in his death, it could well be argued that it is a negative one. According to Sartre, for whom actions defined life, Hugo was therefore a failure. Bad faith - stuck to his ideals.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0003.1>

'La Chute' is seen to portray the themes of guilt and judgement throughout.

These themes are powerfully represented not only by the words used but by the nature of the settings also.

A lawyer from Paris falls into a sense of awareness when he hears a laugh as he crosses a bridge. He feels as though the whole world is laughing at him.

Previously (in a historical sense) Clemanceau heard a young woman fall into the river as she commited suicide. He did nothing to help though and continued to walk by.

The form of the novel is that of a monologue and Clemanceau talks to a stranger in a bar in Amsterdam and he confesses his past life.

It is shown that Clemanceau used to like defending widowers(???) and orphans but it is only later that he realizes he did not really care for these people but simply wanted to remain on the right side of the law.

When Clemanceau begins to think more deeply about life, he comes to the conclusion that it is futile. He is haunted by the laugh he heard and realizes that he was always hypocritical when he was in Paris.

When Clemanceau first realizes his past was hypocritical and that he was guilty because the motives for helping other people were 'wrong' he decides to play the fool. He thinks about puncturing the tyres of wheelchairs for example.

It is when he realizes that absolute innocence is impossible that he decides to aim his life towards absolute guilt. He seems to feel that by confessing his absolute guilt no-one will be able to laugh at him behind his back. He tries to make out that he is completely indifferent to everything but is shaken into a sense of awareness when he thinks he sees a drowning woman in the sea from the transatlantic liner. The guilt he feels because he did not even attempt to save the woman who was committing suicide in Paris seems to remain with him.

As Clemanceau talks to the stranger he begins by confessing his own guilt, another example being that he raises his hat to a blind man after he has helped him cross the road. As the listener becomes more interested, however, Clemanceau talks not just about his own guilt, but also about the guilt of mankind. He is cleverly made to change from using the participle 'je' to using 'on' and 'nous'.

Clemanceau implicates everyone in a sense of guilt and stands as a judge before them. He not only is a lawyer, so in that sense judges people, but he also claims to be 'juge-pénitent'. He also calls himself 'Jean-Baptiste Clemanceau'. He claims to be Elijah and these religious implications are perhaps designed to lead us to the idea of the 'Last Judgement'. In scriptures, it is the 'Last Judgement' which is supposed to be the hardest of all. However, since Camus said that he did not believe in God, there are perhaps other implications. Camus followed Dostoyevski's view that 'everything is permitted'. In fact it is a view pronounced by Ivan Karamazov. Camus also believed however, that man must create certain values so there is some order in the world. The idea that comes across is that although in theory everything is permitted, in fact humans are subject to the judgements of other humans. If you do not believe in God, then it is this judgement of each other which is of such importance.

In Amsterdam the weather is seen as misty and dull, and this is used to emphasize the feeling of guilt of manking. Clemanceau refers to how several thousands of Jews were deported from Amsterdam, and he also refers to the German officer who asked a woman which of her two sons was to be killed. Amsterdam is seen as a cosmopolitan place and, therefore, the guilt that is portrayed there is perhaps a symbol of the guilt of mankind throughout the world.

Another theme in 'La Chute' which lives with the ideas of guilt and judgement is 'hell'. Clemanceau refers to the many circles in Amsterdam and talks about the ninth circle of hell; the one which is reserved for traitors. The idea of judgement in a religious sense is linked with these circles of hell.

Amsterdam is explained as being below sea level, and this idea of depth evokes the idea of the depths of hell. Clemanceau, however, believes he stands above other people and that he has a 'vue plongeante'. The idea of this height gives the feeling that he stands over others in judgement of them.

Clemanceau is also guilty because he stole a painting which depicted the scene of judgement, and he also drank the water which belonged to a dying man when he was in a prisoner of war camp. He had been elected 'pope' there and, therefore, felt he had greater responsibility and authority.

It is only towards the end of the novel that we are drawn to the idea that Clemanceau does not actually know what is true and what is false. This points out that he may have been making up his whole confession just to encourage the stranger to speak of his guilt.

There are various mentions of role-playing, and mask-bearing so Clemanceau may actually be guilty of not even confessing honestly.

At the end of the novel the stranger turns out to be a lawyer also and he begins to confess. Clemanceau has, therefore, achieved his aim, even though he would have liked his listener to have been a policeman so he could have become a martyr.

Finally, Clemanceau, who believes that the responsibility of freedom is too great to be faced alone, advocates the enforcement of slavery. This evokes the ideas not only of a master, but of a greater 'Being' for example God.




At the beginning of 'Les Mouches', Oreste seems very unsure of himself, and his motives are not only unclear to us but they seem very confused within him. 

He decided to go back to the place where he was born. Beforehand he had been roaming around aimlessly. He arives at the city wished to acquire his past and to feel a sense of unity with the people. According to Sartre this is seen as an act of bad faith. This is explained by the fact that everyone is free and can make choices for his or herself no matter how confining the circumstances. Even an officer for example has the choice of exactly how he carries out his orders. Everyone also has a project which is defined by yourself and it is in some ways seen to be how you consider yourself.

Sartre also talks about objects which are seen to possess the qualities of 'being in itself since they do not contain the properties of consciousness. Humans, however, are seen to have the properties of 'being for itself' because we contain the properties of consciousness.

According to Sartre, humans are inclined to try to become static objects which exist 'in themselves'. This, however, can be seen as an act of bad faith because it is denying ourselves the full extent of our freedom.

Sartre says we also exist 'for others' because there is always the 'look' of others which will judge. He points out that we have a responsibility to others as well as to ourselves since our actions are exemplary. It is the realization of this responsibility and the realization of the vastness of our freedom which may make us feel anguish and despair. 

Oreste make the mistake, therefore, at the beginning of believing our futures are determined for us. He attaches a sense of importance to the past and even believes that others are pushed forward in a certain way but he is. At the beginning of the play he is seen to believe in God and he says <quote>. This belief is also an act of bad faith because it denies himself of the full extent of his freedom.

The people of Argos are seen to dwell in an even greater sense of bad faith, however, since they continue to repent and feel remorse for the murder of their king several years beforehand. The murderer is actually the present king of Argos who rules with the widow of the previous king. Children are brought up to repent and what is more important is that they must be seen to repent.
It is perhaps the extremeness of this case which helps Oreste define his own project.

Electre is seen to be full of vitality at the beginning of the play, however, in opposition to Oreste she turns to repentance as a way out.

Oreste asks for signs from God but is unimpressed when light fizzles behind a rock. Through the course of the play he is seen to turn away from religion as a way out and decides his actions for himself.

It is when he decides the murder the present king and queen (his mother) that he seems most sure of himself. He previously revealed his true identity to Electre (his sister), but it is only now that she recognized him as the person he really is, rather than her 'knight in shining armour', who will come and save her.

Oreste does kill the king and queen but only after listening to a conversation between the king and Jupiter (who is supposed to be the god of life, but is actually seen here as the god of death).

This conversation reveals that the king and Jupiter have the same secret. This is that people are free and the king and Jupiter can only rule if people deny themselves of this freedom which in turn reduces their sense of responsibility.

Once the murders have taken place Electre becomes overcome with the cruelty of the crimes. She decides she wants no part in it and when Jupiter offers her an easy way out she gladly accepts. Jupiter reassures her that she never really meant any harm and all along was only playing 'au meutre'. This emphasizes the fact that Electre was never really aware of what she was doing but was committing acts of bad faith.

Jupiter offers Oreste the position of king if he will repent of his sins. Oreste, however, who initially wanted to conquer the city and become king for his own benefit now declines this offer. He realizes that he does not belong here and does not feel guilty for his crimes. Jupiter warns that the responsibility for these crimes will be great, especially so since if he rejects Jupiter he will have to tread the difficult path alone. Oreste remains firm-footed, however, and does not turn to acts of bad faith as an easy way out. As he says, <quote>. He is prepared to face up to his responsibilities and assume all attributes of 'being for himself'. The people of Argos, however, become angry and raise their hands against him. Oreste however stands in front of them and proclaims that he takes all the guilt which goes with the crimes on himself. He says they are free to do what they wish with their lives, and then he leaves. The flies which infested Argos leave with him, a symbol of remorse also leaving the city.

Although Electre refuses to go with him, he knows there is no place here for him.

At the end of the play he is seen as a positive character, that is he has succeeded in his quests and learnt about himself and others. It seems he will create his own life for himself now without turning to religion or other such means which would reduce his sense of responsibility and freedom.

Some people, for example 'Gabriel Marcel', and 'Francis Jeanson' have criticised the ending of the play saying it is not enough to merely demonstrate that he is free.
Reviews of this play which have been published by 'Gallimard' have linked the ending to ideas of revolutionists at the time. The view held by revolutionists was that you can free France (or in this case Argos) but it is up to the people to decide what to do with their liberty. It is the people who must create their own future, because repression and dictatorship are forms of enslavement, or acts of bad faith as Sartre would have expressed.



After the death of his sister and lover Drusilla, Caligula becomes intensely aware of a sense of futility of life. He is deeply moved by the thought that even the great sense of berievement of Drusilla will in time pass. Caligula makes a simple observation that <quote>. It is this observation which makes him decide that he wants to acquire the moon. His desire is that everything which is impossible should be made possible, and in this way he believes, at the beginning of the play, that men will be immortal and will be happy.

Caligula can be admired immediately because he attempts to make all men immortal, and all men happy. His desire is not one of selfishness but quite the opposite.

His desires may be seen as perfectly understandable but the methods he uses can to a certain extent be seen as horrific. He kills people at random, he makes people who are berieving laugh, and he takes a woman from her husband and rapes her. He also commands for the stores of grain to be shut and for famine to hit the land.

These crimes in themselves will not create happiness, however, Caligula wishes that people will appreciate life more fully and not take it for granted. He wants to make people aware of the futility of life and the absurdness of their existence. People are shown to want perfect knowledge but nature is hostile to this and other desires. It is this hostility which is explained by Camus to represent part of the absurdness of life. Man is seen to be created, yet perfect knowledge cannot be obtained and then we die. Camus questions why man lives at all.

Caligula hopes that by putting his people closer in touch with death they will be more conscious of the attributes of life.

A sense of sympathy can therefore be felt because Caligula aims in the long run to increase the appreciation which his subjects have of life. He eventually wants happiness and immortality for everyone so life will not seem as absurd and so that people do not have a feeling of estrangement when they reflect on their position in the world.

Caligula is seen to be logical in his approach and since he is sympathized with even by those who believe he is wrong, a greater sense of sympathy for him may be felt. Cherea understands Caligula's logic but believes life needs some sort of order to it and that it must be governed by 'relatives' rather than 'absolutes'.

Caligula is seen to carry on the idea portrayed in 'Mythe de Sisyphe' of maximizing the quantity of actions rather than maximizing quality. Caligula, therefore, as pointed out by Cherea aims to conduct his and others' lives by the method of absolutes.

Scipion is seen at the beginning of the play to be a disciple of Caligula, but as the play develops although he too understands Caligula's logic and feels sympathy for him, he also realizes that this is not the 'right' way.

The patricians are older than Caligula and seen in an unfavourable light. They are seen to dislike Caligula, however, this 'dislike' is seen to have a positive effect to a certain extent because they themselves are not amiable.

Caligula's aims are good and he is determined to carry through with his train of thought. As he points out, fewer people have died according to these methods than would have died if he had sent people to fight.

Caligula can be admired that he cares so much for the people he rules over although his methods are rather horrific.

The sense of sympathy which is evoked can also be seen because Caligula does fail in his tasks and he realizes he took the wrong path.

Camus believed that physical and intellectual suicide are wrong because it denies the existence of the only truth, that of the absurd.

Caligula, however, in a sense can be seen to be committing intellectual suicide. In a way he is driving for people to kill him, an in the end he actually wishes to be killed.

Throughout the play we see a man who, after realizing the absurdness of life, tries to make people realize the worthyness of living. He tries to make the impossible possible so that men will become immortal and happy.

He can be admired for the intelligence of his logic yet sympathized with because by the very fixity and the nature of the world, his desires will never be fulfilled. A certain sense of sympathy may also be evoked because Caligula is shown to be slightly paranoid at times. He believes for example that someone is taking tablets against being poisoned, so kills them, only to find out the tablets were anti-asthma pills.

We may also be made to feel some sympathy for Caligula because he stops Scipion from finishing reading out his poem. The poem is seen to show an acute awareness of death, and this perhaps frightens Caligula as he realizes the full impact of his actions.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0004.1>

In existentialist terms, guilt is a characteristic which goes hand in hand with duplicity. In seeking to come to terms with the absurdity of human existence, ie the fact that man's inherent desire to seek out the truth of the world is defeated by the incomprehensible nature of the world and by his own mortality, one result of trying to do this is by portraying a guilty nature, refusing to accept the absurdity of life and trying to revolt against it by duplicity.

La Chute involves guilt of various types, allocated to different people. Firstly, Clarence is guilty. His previous life as a lawyer in Paris was led in a sense of 'oneness' and false innocence. From the moment Clarence hears the scream on the bridge, which triggers his mind into recalling and recognizing various incidents of his 'fall', he realizes that this previous life was in fact a guilty one, a duplicitous one - his image in the mirror now seems double - because he did not recognize the essential nature of the human condition and was leading a life which on the outside was that of a 'do-gooder' whereas he primarily carried out his good deeds for his own satisfaction in being able to control other people. <quote> he maintains. In order to overcome this guilt at his former duplicitous nature, he then tries to overtly demonstrate his double character, by leading a life of self-satisfaction and debauchery. Still unable to rid himself of his guilt he goes to Amsterdam, the scene of the Nazi atrocities and therefore a suitably 'guilty' place, to perform his newly created role of 'juge-pénitent' in which, in order to exorcise his guilt, he holds it up to everyone else, and exposes it, to then be able to regain the sense of superiority he lost, and be able to judge them. Clarence wishes his interlocutor were a policeman so that his confession would be acted upon, in spite of the fact that he really desires to judge others to regain his self-esteem than to be punished. To vividly demonstrate the sense of guilt he feels after his 'fall' he uses a legal concept, referring to the friends he once dominated <quote>.

The second aspect of the theme of guilt is that which Clarence attributes to his interlocutor. He craftily changes his style of speech from 'je' to 'nous' to 'vous', thereby transfering his own guilt to the guilt of mankind as a whole and finally to expose that of the listener. Clarence seeks absolutes, which in Camus' eyes are not possible or desirable for mankind, and therefore sees that everyone is guilty, without exception. He feels that the inherently duplicitous nature of the world <quote> means that everyone is guilty and he seeks to judge them. He even maintains that Christ was guilty, for his birth led to the massacre of thousands of innocent babies by Herod. In one sense, by his portrayal of the anti-Christ, he seeks to make mankind aware of its guilt, but whereas Christ took away men's sins, this is not the intention of Clarence. His role of "playing God", in judging people, makes it clear that God is not necessary in terms of executing the final judgement, because men judge one another on earth, with far more severity. He exposes this judgemental nature of mankind to emphasize the basic need for man to control others, in the search for their own freedom. The first step on the road to finding this liberty, according to Camus in Le mythe de Sisyphe was to <quote>. Clarence attempts to do this by judging others, allocating good and bad morals(???), according to his will. Such values are really relative because they are attributed with reference to a standard, in the Christian world, that of God, which in existentialist terms does not exist.

Clarence is guilty because he refuses to accept responsibility for his own 'crimes' in that he is actually deceiving the listener throughout the entire narration. He manipulates the interlocutor into the position of having to confess his own faults, in order for Clarence to become superior - he gets up from his sickbed to feel physically superior to his listener in the super duplicity of his revelation of the stolen fake painting.

It may be the case that Clarence judges others to prevent himself from 'falling' further. If he examines his own nature any further than the well-rehearsed spiel, he may find that he is unable to prevent himself slipping further into the realms of despair at his increasing awareness of the duplicitous nature of life, and in judging others, can halt the investigation he rightly should continue into his own freedom. His so-called profession as a 'juge-pénitent', which is only explained in the latter stages of the book perfectly demonstrates his need to judge and accuse others. His previous role as a lawyer no longer fitted his needs.

It is a paradox of the Christian religion that Clarence whilst loving high places in order to feel superior, actually 'judges' from Amsterdam, below sea level, surrounded by baptismal water and in the innermost circle of the rings of hell in Dante's Inferno, as Clarence puts it. He is therefore judging as the anti-Christ, Satan in Judecca, cynically reversing Christian beliefs in the Final Judgement in his own paradoxical representation of it. Even the fake picture, which is lying in this circle of hell reflects the judgemental nature of Clarence. It shows the Juges Intègres, the opposite to Clarence's 'Juge-Pénitent', which is half of a panel stolen from the Ghent Cathedral. Interestingly enough, the reverse of this panel, split in half by the Berlin museum to be better displayed, as the critic Rosemary Collins points out, showed John the Baptist and Jean-Baptiste is the false name used by Clarence. Therefore in his refusal to accept the nature of mankind, Clarence performs the super-duplicitous act of revealing this crime to his listener. Jean-Baptiste Clarence, alias Juge-Pénitent has effectively taken the place of John the Baptist, missing from his rightful place on the reverse of the Juges-Intègres.

Clarence reverses all reasoning and truth as much to enable himself to avoid the reality of life, as to deceiving his listener. In the end, however, the ambiguities his duplicitous judgements create merely seem to deepen his guilt further at not being able to accept that fulfillment of life is possible, in a joyful sense, and obtainable from the very recognition of the futility and absurdity of the human condition.




Oreste is pursuing a quest for truth, in search of the meaning of freedom, in order to discover himself. Initially in the play he has a very misguided sense of freedom, which in Sartre's views is the inherent characteristic of man - he is free to choose everything about his life because his consciousness (l'être-en-soi) is constantly looking forwards, separated from the past by nothingness. Oreste still believes in the existence and omnipotence of the gods. <quote> he says when told the history of Argos. In fact, as he comes to realize in the play, it is only the meaning attributed to God or gods by man, which engenders this state of subservience to them. In refusing to accept total responsibility for themselves and to accept the nature of their freedom, many people resort to a belief in determinism, to enable them to blame an external force for their mistakes at (???) behaviour. This is the essence of mauvaise-foi (bad faith) which is the concomitant of freedom, and the antithetical consequence of freedom, but which should be avoided in the search for the real truth. Oreste is therefore initially 'innocently' guilty of mauvaise-foi because of his subservience to the gods and also because he believes that <quote> ie whose life is predetermined by an external force. Although he himself does not believe he falls into this category, his belief that some others do, is an indication of his imperfect conceptions regarding human freedom. He does however still believe that he needs guidance from some determining force outside his life, in order to find his way. <quote>, he says, <quote> He begins to see therefore that we each have a path to follow in life, a 'project' in Sartre's terms, but doesn't see that this is the result of a fundamental choice made by the individual rather than aided by someone else. 

A further sign of Oreste's initial mauvaise-foi is the fact that he desperately wants to unify himself with the city of Argos, and integrate himself into the place in order to find himself, to give himself an identity which he feels he lacks. This, in existentialist terms, is impossible because of the fundamental difference between the 'être pour-soi' and the 'être en-soi'. Objects, including towns only have existence, they only exist 'en-soi' and have no meaning until man attributes a meaning to them by means of the consciousness, l'être-pour-soi. Consciousness primarily defines itself by the presence of other consciousnesses (l'être-pour-autrui) because it is only in the look of another person that we realize we ourselves are objects of their consciousnesses and by their looked we recognize the values and merits they attribute to us. A city is incapable of fulfilling this reciprocal duty, so it is impossible for Oreste to define himself, obtain an identity or give meaning to his life simply by integrating into Argos.

In the course of the play, Oreste comes to recognise the true meaning of individual freedom. He rejects the omnipotence of the gods (Jupiter in Les Mouches, but representing religion including Christianity as a whole) when he seeks a sign form Zeus (ie Jupiter) and is rewarded with a miracle, which he rejects. He describes the morals of religion as 'leur Bien', not his own. Similarly, he overhears Jupiter revealing to Egisthe the painful secret belonging to gods and kings: <quote>. Oreste realizes that if he accepts his own freedom and completed responsibility for himself and his actions, then God (Jupiter) becomes meaningless; if he is no longer attributed a value or meaning by man, then he cannot control man. This argument represents Sartre's atheistic conception of the world - God is impossible, because he is a contradiction in terms. It is not possible to have a conscious omnipotent being which is also 'en-soi' ie with an object-like status, stable and eternal. Although man would like to be like this, he recognizes the transitory nature of his condition and, guilty of mauvaise-foi, attributes the desired qualities to a determining force. Oreste finally realizes that no such determinism is possible in the search for truth and freedom.

The murders of Clytemnestra and Egisthe by Oreste prove to be cathartic in that they enable him to accept responsibility for his own crime without remorse. The people of Argos had deceived themselves by accepting remorse for crimes they did not commit, brought on by the "look" of the monarchs who needed the comfort of communal remorse to evade responsibility for their own choices and crimes.

Progression along the road towards a fuller self-understanding and awareness of human freedom entails abandonment and resulting anguish. Oreste feels abandoned by Jupiter though in fact it is he who has rejected Jupiter's authority and also by Electre, who, unable to accept the responsibility of her role of accomplice in the murder of her mother, falls victim to mauvaise-foi and rejects what had been her increasing awareness of mankind's authenticity. Oreste feels anguish as a result of his solitude, but this anguish which leads to despair is a necessary part of his quest. Indeed, Jupiter said that, <quote> so it is clear that Oreste will benefit in the long run from his acceptance of the futile and restrictive nature of man's existence and the solitude of his freedom.

By the end of the play, we think Oreste has achieved his aim, that of finding his identity and freedom, and therefore no longer needs the city of Argos in order to recognise the values of choice, responsibility and freedom. His acceptance of the throne of Argos would merely have been to perpetuate the crimes of Egisthe and would have been a relapse into self-denial and bad-faith. However, Oreste, whilst seeming to be the Existentialist Hero, claims, at the end, to take away the remorse and repentance of the citizens of Argos onto himself. It is unclear whether his initial project was to find his own identity or to free the Argonites, but if he is claiming to take away their remorse, he is not fulfilling the existentialist hero's role, because each person is ultimately responsible for himself and although Oreste can clear the way for the Argonites to free themselves from their remorse, he cannot do it for them. His conduct acts as an example, for the Argonites to follow, but if he professes to take their remorse away from them, he is slipping back into the claws of mauvaise-foi once again.



Les Mains sales presents aspects of the political world and moral values which may be considered in various ways, depending on the political and ethical morals of the audience. When it was first produced, as a play in 1948 and later as a film, it provoked great indignation from Marxist intellectuals, who felt that their position had been severely attacked by Sartre. Indeed Sartre's refusal to give permission for the play to be performed in the West after 1952 seems to indicate that it did objectively portray criticisms of the communist part which were not initially intended by Sartre, as he did after all belong to the political far left although he was non-aligned.

The play does seem to be profoundly ambiguous in the political sense because whereas, on the one hand, it seems to portray a condemnation of the dependence of the Communist Party on Moscow's orders (demonstrated in the play by the waste of Hoederer's life in vain followed by a switching of political tactics to his methods according to higher orders) it does not, objectively viewed, condemn their means in achieving the ends they pursue, although viewed by a non-marxist such means would be considered unethical.

The socialist/communist party the 'parti prolétarien' as a whole in the play is positively viewed. Apart from the first scene, all the action is internal to the party and characters which are positively viewed such as Hoederer, and, to a lesser extent Hugo, both endorse the ultimate aims of the party; The two characters in the play who are not members of the PP, Karsky and the Regent, are both portrayed in a negative light, which reflects, therefore, in a positive way on the PP.

Similarly, although the communist means to achieve ends (ie assassination) would be abhorred by an external viewer, every member of the party endorses such methods, and would be prepared to die or kill for the party. Hoederer, Olga and Hugo all explicitly accept this, although Hugo evidently has problems fulfilling his aims.

The change of course of the Communist party, whilst Hugo is in prison, follows the historical precedent of the PCF's involvement in the Popular Front and therefore represents a political reality, which although seemingly ambiguous, is a reflection of politics today; Similarly, the open admittance of Hoederer of being prepared to lie to the proletariat in order to fulfill the party's ultimate objectives, is not so uncommon in the present political world.

The treatment of Hugo, as a potentially anarchic intellectual in the play, and the party's lack of concern over his personal ideals are also politically accurate, because, certainly in France, the PCF carried out a policy of encouragement towards intellectuals in times of popularity in order to bathe in their reflective glory, and of expulsion or 'non-recruitment' in times of difficulty.

These aspects are therefore fairly accurate but their interpretation is ambiguous. It is not clear whether Sartre intended to criticize the Communists or not. On the one hand he seems to be praising their sense of duty to the party but on the other hand he raises the arguments for and against the 'volte-face' that the Party carried out after Hoederer's death. Hugo represents one ethical stand-point at the end of the play. In his eyes, Hoederer's death will prove meaningless if he agrees not to claim it as a political killing but rather as a crime of passion. His act will also be meaningless. He has enormous respect for Hoederer, and had in fact gone to accept his help in becoming an adult, an authentic responsible person, when he discovered Jessica with him. Therefore, he wants to see Hoederer's death respected in the way it should be - of a man who died for his ideals. Hugo sees no other way of doing this than to allow himself to be killed, presuming that his death will give meaning to Hoederer's. What he does not realize is that his death in fact renders both his and Hoederer's lives meaningless and is a futile act, because it is most likely the party will cover up his death and attribute Hoederer's death to a crime of passion, anyway, as yet another means to an end. Though his values are therefore well-placed, as portrayed to the non-marxist reader (a marxist one might consider his independence attributable to a lack of discipline resulting from his bourgeois background), his action is futile and we are therefore left wondering whether it was worth it for Hugo to stand up for his views. This is especially questionable in view of the fact that Hugo seems to have 'foiled' in his quest for truth and an identity by means of the Communist regime and is constantly doubting himself throughout the play. He is plagued by memories of his bourgeois childhood and the fear that he might betray the party to his background, in a similar way to his father, thus epitomizing the ambiguous nature of the play. Hugo seems to be aiming for one thing, but is plagued by worry and doubt - politically and ethically speaking, the play aims not to attack the Communists and their methods, but gives rise to doubtful opinions as it progresses, due to its ambiguity.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0005.1>

In his play "Caligula", Camus brings up the questions he had earlier raised in "Le mythe de Sisyphe" concerning the absurdity of life and our acceptance of this. The way in which he portrays Caligula shows the perversion of the attributes expressed in "Le mythe de Sisyphe" as desirable. although he in many ways epitomises the Absurd man, as Camus describes him, Caligula's way of dealing with the discovery of the futility of life is a warning of acting in an absolute way. Cherea is used by Camus as a counter-balance to Caligula's absolute nature, and although he is not illogical, he realises the value of life and is therefore suggested to be right.

Following the death of Drusilla, Caligula has learnt the true nature of man's existence: <quote>. Man's mortality is now painfully clear to him, as is the futility of his life. And so Caligula has understood the absurdity of our condition; the fact that we can never possess the world and never have full clarity leaves him with a sense of anguish. However, unlike Sisyphe, in "Le mythe de Sisyphe", Caligula is unable to accept his situation and therefore can find no happiness in it. Throughout the play, Caligula's reaction to the discovery of the Absurd is to try and carry out the impossible, thereby changing the nature of the universe, and making man mortal and therefore happy. This is symbolised by his quest for the moon, and he tells Helicon right at the start of the play, <quote>. This theory is quite logical, the impossible possession of the moon would reverse the nature of the universe and could therefore change man's condition. However, the reality is that Caligula can never make man mortal, and so unable to avoid death, he becomes death. This is a more concrete aspect of Caligula's logic; he cannot change his situation, and so instead resolves to inflict his anguish on everyone else. He does this by revealing death to them, by showing them the futility of life and their mortality. 

Part of Caligula's logic is his rejection of the Gods as a means of comfort. Just as Camus advocates athesism as a means of being true to oneself, that is to say his refers to religion as <quote>, a denial of ones freedom and dignity, so Caligula rejects the Gods and instead aims to be as cruel and powerful as them. His rejection of fate and destiny, too, show logic, and Caligula makes himself destiny, <quote>. It is he who holds the power of life and death, not God nor fate.

Similarly Caligula is logical in his determination to live his own life to the full, although this is at the expense of others. He epitomises the quantitive ethic, expressed earlier by Camus as another attribute of lucidity and awareness of the Absurd.

However although Camus portrays Caligula's actions as logical, the absolute terms in which is sees life are wrong. His decision to become death, for example, is an expression of his own freedom, but a denial of that of others. He himself admits that, <quote>. It is for this reason that he orders arbitrary executions, a famine and has people put to death for minor offences. By portraying Caligula as such a horrific character, Camus is obviously showing he thinks Caligula's assumptions from his discovery of his freedom are the wrong ones.

It becomes evident that Caligula has been wrong towards the end of the play. After strangling Caesonia, Caligula accepts that he, too, is guilty, <quote>. He even admits that he has taken the wrong way and has made a mistake <quote>. He says that even if he could possess the moon and make the impossible possible, he could not undo the death and destruction his has caused. This admission that he drew the wrong conclusions from the realisation of the Absurd is Camus' way of saying Caligula was logical but wrong.

Finally, the fact that Caligula in the end allows himself to be killed so easily, after ritually committing suicide by smashing his reflection in the mirror, also is suggested by Camus to be wrong. In "Le mythe de Sisyphe" Camus condemns suicide as an escape from man's condition which denies the Absurd and loses your dignity. Man should, he says, live his life in constant awareness of the Absurd but with the acceptance of this concept. Caligula was unable to accept his situation and his life can therefore be seen as one long suicide.

Camus also suggests Caligula is wrong through his interaction with other characters in the play. These characters show sympathy and understanding for Caligula's position, and some even agree with him (for example Scipion), but they see life and our situation in relative rather than absolute terms, and are therefore more attractive to us. Caesonia, for example advocates rationality but also acceptance, love and values. She admits life can be bad, but does not see why Caligula wants to make it any worse! She tells him <quote>.

Cherea, in particular, is used as a counter-balance to Caligula. His is illogical, in the sense that he will not accept the anxiety and despair which are a natural consequence of man's freedom, and disagrees with many of the logical facts Caligula has established. For example, Cherea does not believe that all actions are equal. Caligula logically asserts that: <quote>, but Cherea denies this, prefering to believe in a hierarchical value system. However such a system is illogical as there is no God to impose ethical values upon us and no-one to judge us. Cherea also says that men cannot live by pushing the Absurd to its final conclusion, and wants solidity and security in his existance. The uncertainty of the Absurd is too much for him. Cherea wants people to live and be happy, to have purpose.

And so Cherea is portrayed as illogical because he refuses to accept the anxiety of the Absurd. However he sees life in relative terms and therefore is right. He has none of the despair which finally pushes Caligula to "suicide" and is therefore able to live life is a more enjoyable and fullfilling way. He is an attractive character with whom we sympathise, and we therefore perceive him to be "right". Finally the fact the Cherea's life continues, while Caligula's ends must also suggest Camus believes he is right.

And so, the course of events in "Caligula" show Caligula to be logical, in that he lives out the life of the Absurd man as Camus had earlier described him in "Le mythe de Sisyphe". However, Caligula's failure to accept the absurd, and his subsequent pervesion of his freedom suggests Caligula has been wrong. The character of Cherea emphasises these traits in Caligula, and although he is illogical, the final state of affairs in "Caligula" proves he has been right.





Guilt and remorse are apparent throughout the play "Les mouches", and are used by Sartre to express his opinions of Bad Faith, mainly through the acceptance of religion. Sartre wants people to realise that they alone determine their future, and they always have the freedom to choose which way to follow. He denies religion can help here, as it is merely an illusiory hope. By his portrayal of guilt and remorse, then, Sartre is condemning such manifestations of Bad Faith, and advocating individual freedom.

The guilt of people of Argos is a collective guilt, and is a result of the murder of their king Agememnon by his wife Clytemnestre and her lover Egisthe. Instead of taking the responsibility for this crime themselve, Clytemnestre and Egisthe layed it on the whole town, who have been repenting for their "part" in the crime ever since. These people are wholely determined by this past act, and refuse to accept the freedom and choice of the future. To them the murder of Agememnon cannot be separated from their consciousness and their lives and therefore affects their future and means they are without freedom. Their guilt is therefore a supreme act of Bad Faith in Sartre's eyes as it denies the existence of human freedom. An so the people of Argos do not believe they have a choice in life, as everything is predetermined by this guilt, they deny the ability to control their own destiny and take solace in Jupiter, their God. Their remorse is constant, and is aimed at pacifying this God. Remorse, too, is a fundamental act of Bad Faith, as it denies responsibility of action, something which exists by virtue of our freedom. The citizens of Argos, then, have taken refuge in collective guilt and use remorse as a means of denying their responsibilities. They thereby deny the fundamental concept of freedom and essence, which are both vital if one is to live one's life in the correct way.

Guilt and remorse are portrayed in many instances throughout the play, and those who accept these feelings are those who remain in servitude. The flies, after which the play is named, are continual reminders of the crime and plague the people, reminding them always to repent. The appearence of the flies towards the end of the story serves to turn Electre away from her freedom and back to repentence and servitude. Orèste, on the other hand refuses to let them affect him, he will not deny his true self.

At the start of the play, when Orèste has just entered the town, we see a conversation between Jupiter (who is disguised as a man) and an old woman, which is clear evidence of the state of affairs in Argos. The woman tells Jupiter of the remorse of the town, but although she has accepted the burden of remorse, she denies having had any choice in helping Agememnon. Jupiter plays on her guilt, asking <quote>. The woman does not accept she alone was responsible for her inaction, and says there was nothing she could do. This, then, is Bad Faith, as it denies both choice and responsibility. The woman tells how everyone in Argos repents for their crime, not just those who were present when it took place. Even children are brought up to feel remorse and guilt for something they had no influence over. This past act should not affect their lives, though, as they have the freedom to define their own essence.

Throughout the play language is used which is reminiscent of the ritual confession of Catholics. Such repentence is especially apparent during "La Fête des morts". This "fête" involves the "ressurection" of the dead, in the eyes of the Argites, at least for a whole day, they believe their dead are with them, to punish them for being alive, and for past crimes. Again, the emphasis is on the past determining the future. The people even repent their guilt for living! Such remorse keeps the people subserviant and at the will of both the king and queen and Jupiter. Jupiter preys on the guilt and remorse of the people, as do their temporal leaders. By making the people live in the past they are denying them their right to life and denying their freedom to define their essence. The people have no essence, as they are unable to realise the truth about their existance and cannot therefore escape the servitude.

Remorse is also shown in the mourning clothes the people wear and their complete lack of joy. There is no laughing, dancing, or joy in Argos, only remorse at their supposed crime, and a continual reminder of this.

The themes of guilt and remorse can be seen to be a parody of the guilt of the catheolic church. As I have said, the continual repentance ressemples the confessional of the church. Also the people are repenting for the "original sin", just as catheolics feel collective guilt over the fall of man, Adam's original sin. In a similar way to the situation in Argos, the guilt expressed by catheolics is a denial of their freedom and an act of Bad Faith. In this way, Sartre, an atheist, can be seen to be attacking the Church, we he feels is an illusiory comfort depriving men of their true selves.

The character of Electre is particuliarly important in expressing guilt and remorse. Although she has the promise of authenticity at the start of the play, this is merely deludory, and is done to avoid being "part" of the town. However, through her refusal to accept freedom, choice and responsibility for her acts, Electre too becomes a part of the collective guilt and remorse of Argos. Despite learning the truth that <quote>, Electre runs away from the anguish of her freedom and takes solace in Jupiter. She shows guilt and remorse for her acts and thereby is reduced to servitude. Électre epitomises Sartre's idea of Bad Faith. Her brother, Orèste, on the other hand, learns of man's freedom during the play and his project crystalises, leading to the murder of Egisthe and Clytemnestre. Unlike Électre, he refuses to repent for his crime, and has no guilt or remorse. Certaintly, his new found freedom is accompanied by anguish, abandonment and despair, indeed he describes his freedom as "un exil", but nevertheless, Orèste is free. By denying guilt and remorse, Orèste is able to find his true self, gain essence through his acts and become truely free. This is what Sartre wants us to do -to accept our freedom no matter how painful it is and not to take refuge in guilt and remorse. Orèste, then, epitomises authenticity and all its attributes.

Guilt and remorse are, then, very powerful and important themes in "Les mouches" and are used to demonstrate the perils of denying one's freedom to define one's essence, and to choose which way to follow. Guilt and remorse involve placing events beyond one's own control, but this is not the case, as we all have the ability to choose our own project and follow this through life.





At the start of the play "Les Mains Salles", Louis and Olga are discussing whether Hugo should be allowed back into the party. Louis refers to him as <quote> and argues that his background made him unreliable as a member of the Party. Throughout the play, "anarchist" is synonymous with "intéllectuel", which, of course, Hugo is because of his bourgeois background. It is not just Louis who doubts the utility of Hugo, Slick and Georges, and even Hoederer, all use Hugo's background as a weapon against him, assuming that being from the borgeois classes will make Hugo less trustworthy and less disciplined. Through his portrayal of Hugo, Sartre is in fact questing the relationship between intellectuals and the communist movement.

In the second act, Louis has taken an instant dislike to Hugo because of his background. He calls him <quote>, and assumes this will make him undiscipline and hence of no use to the party. The arguments against Hugo centre on discipline - can an intellectual at odds with himself and his upbringing make a disciplined party member. Louis doubts this, and is reluctant to give Hugo any job that is important. Slick and Georges, too, distrust our "anarchist" because of his background, and refer to him as <quote>. They resent the fact that Hugo has entered the party out of principle when for them it has been a matter of necessity and attribute the problems between them to <quote>, or background. Even Hoederer, who obviously cares about Hugo thinks he is an anarchiste, and accuses him of wearing <quote>. This is because Hugo refuses to compromise his ideals, and holds to them regardless of the cost. As an intellectual, Hugo is probably less pragmatic than Hoederer, who is prepared to do whatever is necessary to gain power. He tells Hugo <quote>, and that the only end is power. Hugo disagrees and argues <quote>. Hugo is prepared to keep to his ideals whatever the cost, as Hoederer remarks: <quote>. An intellectual like Hugo, then, an anarchiste, is afraid of real action, although he is quite happy to dream of it. Hoederer believes anarchistes to make good murderers, but bad party members!

In the course of events, we see whether this view of Hugo is well-founded. Is he prepared to work for the good of the party, or do his anarchistic desires make him of no use? There is much evidence to support the views offered by Louis, Slick and Georges and Hoederer. Hugo's idealistic view of party membership, for one thing, shows that his motives are perhaps selfish - he is more interested in what the party can do for him than what he can do for the party! He has joined the party to escape from his background, yet is obsessed with this background and his desire to act seems to be borne out of hate for his father, in particular. Hugo wants to be a hero, and fantasises that he can be like the anarchistes in Russia in the early 20th century. His obsession with assasination, shown by his desire to be "tested", is surely a bad motive for a revolutionary. It is this obsession which means Hugo is not content until he is given such an important task as Hoederer's assassination, as he has to prove he can be trusted. It can be seen that Hugo wants to find an identity in the party which he himself is lacking.

The anarchist Hugo is also wholely against compromise, even if this goes against the party line. He firstly tells Louis that he will never compromise his ideals by favouring a coalition goverment with the borgeois parties, and this decision is borne out in his horror of Hoederer's politics. It can thus be shown that as an intellectual, and and anarchiste, holding to the purety of his ideas, Hugo is unreliable as a party member.

Another fact which questions Hugo's party loyalty and hence utility is his loyalty to Olga and Louis, rather than the party itself. He wants to impress them, as he admires them. This, too, is hardly a good motive for a revolutionary.

Perhaps what demonstrates more than anything else Hugos inability to do as the party asks is his failure to kill Hoederer for the right reasons. He knows why he should kill Hoederer - because he is making bad policy, yet he is emotionally unstable and is persuaded by Hoederer's offer of political and personal guidance. Were he not an anarchiste Hugo would perhaps not have deliberated for so long over the assasination. In the end, Hugo kills Hoederer by chance, because he saw him kissing Jessica. He admits to Jessica <quote>. This does, I feel, prove that Hugo was really of no use to the party. Too involved with his own personal crisis, Hugo was unable to accept party discipline and unwilling to compromise any of his purity. 

Hugo's "suicide" at the end of the play is very much the act of an anarchist. By getting himself shot, Hugo hopes to attach some importance to Hoederers death, and to his own act, he does not want the party to believe he killed such a man as Hoederer over a "mere" woman. Although he did not kill Hoeder over politics, he believes that by refusing to say his killing was a mistake, he will somehow attribute importance to the act. Hugo cannot accept that the party line has changed, and still will not compromise his ideals, preferring death to losing his purity. This final gesture is totally futile and emphasises the fact that Hugo was of no real use to the party. 

Events in the play show, then, that Hugo does deserve to be called an anarchiste and hence demonstrate he is of no use to the play. His motives for joining the party are wrong and his actions misguided. But, of course, there are some positive aspects to Hugo which might have been valuable to the party had he not been so determined to follow his conscience.

Firstly the refusal to compromise can be seen in a good light, and reflects his devotion to the cause. However it must be remembered that Hugo was more concerned with principals and the communist "cause" than with the party itself and reality. To have made the sacrifice Hugo made in joining the party, Hugo must truely believe in his principles. However, this too is negated if we take the view that Hugo joined the party to merely take on an identity. Intellectuals may be of use to the communist party, particularly as a form of propaganda and because of their capacity to verbalize and theorize (producing a good argument). However when the intellectual has a personal crisis like Hugo the good points are generally negated by the bad.

And so, to conclude, I believe that Louis is correct when he accuses Hugo of being an anarchiste, and the similar opinion of others only serve to make this more valid. Hugo's actions throughout the play clearly show his preoccupation with himself, and his death is in keeping with the idea of him as an anarchist. Being so undisciplined, Hugo is not really much use to the communist party, which demands absolute subordination of the individual to the party.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0006.1>

Le Mythe de Sisyphe is a novel that is bound with duplicity. This is especially true of the main theme: that life is futile and yet worth living to the full. The main themes dealt with in Le Mythe de Sisyphe are the absurdity of life and suicide.

Camus starts by trying to define the absurd. He takes this as the starting point for this work, and criticizes other philosophers for not realising the potential of the absurd and always using it as a conclusion instead of the starting point. Absurdity occurs, or starts to occur, when an everyday object suddenly becomes stripped of its everyday meaning. Camus writes that people need 'clairvoyance' or lucidity. People want and need knowledge but he shares the Cartesian view that the only thing you can be certain of is 'I think, therefore I am'. Knowledge of somethings is beyond the reach of the human mind. The disparity between the search for fundamental truth and what we can be certain of, cannot change.

There is a process which leads to the creation of the 'absurd' man. First of all, an object is suspended from its every day meaning. Then, suddenly, in the middle of an every day task, the meaning of what you are doing is suddenly withdrawn. The futility of your act suddenly becomes all too apparent. Camus describes the way in which you realise time is passing, and experience self hatred for not doing more with your life. When you strip life of the meaning which we usually chose to give it, every act, becomes futile. Camus describes the solitude and isolation of the realisation of the absurdity of life as being a <quote>, like a light that doesn't shine.

Having had the realisation of the absurdity of life, Camus writes that some people try to deny it, by taking a leap of faith. They seek refuge in religion, and according to Camus take a <quote>. 

In Le Mythe de Sisyphe one of the main themes is suicide. Camus poses the question of whether, having realised the absurdity of life, the best thing to do, isn't to take your own life. Firstly he asks, "why not commit suicide". After all you cannot go much further than the realisation of the absurd. The rest of Le Mythe de Sisyphe however shows the arguement against suicide. He argues, that the absurdity and futility of life, that we live, and then we die, is the only certain truth that we have. To deny this is to deny the only truth. Part of the absurdity of life is death, so to commit suicide, is to embrace absurdity.

Instead, Camus argues, there is human dignity to be gained, from knowing life is futile, and yet still living, as if there was a purpose. He tries to convince the reader, that instead of committing suicide, we should revolt against the human condition. We have the freedom, of the condemned man. We know life is futile, so nothing really matters and everything is of equal importance. There are no restrictions on us, so we should live life to the full. In Le Mythe de Sisyphe, Camus gives four examples of what he means by this. The first example is that of Don Juan, who sleeps with as many different women as possible. There is no love or commitment, just instant gratification. There is no one to judge our behaviour.

The second example, is that of the Conquérant, who does not care about history but wants to go out with a bang. Thirdly, there is the actor, who lives out a life, every time he acts on stage. This illustrates the futility of human life. Lastly, he describes the role of the creative writer. According to Camus, he experiences everything twice - the first time when he actually lives the experience, and the second time when he writes about it. The creative writer however should not write as if there are any answers, or any conclusions that can be drawn. At the end of Le Mythe de Sisyphe, there is a parable. Having been told that he does not have long to live, as a test of her love, Sisyphe asks his wife, to throw his body out into the street (???) as soon as he is dead. When he dies, she does this, and Sisyphe is allowed dispensation to come back and send (???) her out. When he gets back however, he finds that he likes life much and refuses to return to death. As a punishment, he is condemned to push a boulder up a hill for eternity. Everytime he is just about to reach the top, the boulder rolls down again and he has to start at the beginning. This is a vivid illustration of the absurdity of life. Sisyphe however, carries this task out with dignity, and in so doing defies the power the Gods have over him, because he still has the choice to carry out the task with dignity. Despite the futility of life, we still have to choice to live life to the full, and accept our condition, with dignity.




At the outset of the play, Caligula is a generous ruler, who has incestuous desires for his sister. After his sisters death however, his personality changes drastically, although it becomes clear, that this is not just because his sister is dead.

After his sisters death, Caligula dissappears. When he reappears, he talks to Cherea about the futility of life and the fact that "people die and they are not happy". He says that life the way it is, is intolerable, but this is not because he has lost his sister. He thinks that his people have not recognised their condition, or the futility of life. They think that they are immortal and happy, whereas Caligula knows they are mortal and unhappy. He wants to strip the people of their security and show them the futility of their life. Caligula wants to change the natural order of things. He thinks that if he can achieve one impossible act, then this will change everything. This is why Caligula wants to seduce the moon. Caligula, not being able to achieve the impossible, starts a reign of terror. He asserts the absurdity of life. He sees everything in extremes. He argues logically and lucidly that if people are going to die, then it might as well be sooner rather than later. Cherea however argues against this logical conclusion, saying that even though life is futile, people still have a right to live it, and have the right to some security. Camus does not illustrate what logic Cherea used to reach this conclusion, and it is obvious that he is speaking from an emotional point of view. According to Caligula, everyone is guilty. He decides that mankind must be guilty, because they are condemned to death. As soon as they are born, they start dying.

Is Caligula right or wrong in carrying out his reign of terror?

Camus shows that Caligula is wrong, because Caligula himself starts to recognize the fact that he has done the wrong thing. When he looks in the mirror, he loathes himself, because he recognizes that he too is guilty because he has done the wrong thing. He too is guilty of being human.

When reading the play, we tend to impose our own moral standards and judgements on the characters, but does Camus actually show us that Caligula is wrong?

Caligula has many of the characteristics of "l'homme absurde". He is lucid, and has the isolation of a man who has realised the absurdity of life. And yet he draws the wrong conclusions. There is a lot of common ground between 'Le Mythe de Sisyphe' and 'Caligula', but there are also huge disparities between the action taken in the face of absurdity.

Part of the dignity which can be achieved from the realisation of the absurd, is through choice. By exercising his right of choice however, Caligula is depriving others of theirs. He wants to show everyone the absurdity of their condition. The absurd man is fundamentally innocent - there is no one to judge him. Caligula however thinks that everyone is guilty. Caligula is shown to be lucid and logical, but yet to draw totally the wrong conclusions from his despair. He recognizes that he is wrong himself, and his own death at the end further implies that he was wrong although what he did was not incomprehensible.



Sartre did not want to write a play which was a <quote>. Instead he wanted to have a play which showed characters having to face the anguish of decision making, and who developed themselves on stage.

Some critics have said that the play 'Les Mouches' represents the situation in France at the time, but others argue that this is just a 'post facto' meaning which has been added.

The main themes in Les Mouches are that of guilt and remorse, which are very closely linked with the idea of religion in the play. When Oreste arrives in Argos he finds a city that is ridden with bad faith. The whole city is in repentance for a crime that was committed years ago. They believe that they cannot change their fate, and they are condemmed because of this murder. The citizens of the town, condemn each other and bring their children up with a strong feeling of remorse and guilt, for a crime which was committed before they were born, like the idea of the original sin. When Oreste arrives in the fly-ridden city he lacks self awareness, he has no real past and he feels he doesn't belong anywhere. He does not know any of the history of his native city. He is the one who is the most open to see what is happening in Argos. When he first arrives in the city, he still has illusions, as he asks Jupiter, who is disguised as an old man, how the Gods can let Argos be punished in such a way. 

Sartre offers us an idea of reversal of fate in this play. People think that everything is predetermined by the Gods, but this is bad faith. Everyone can shape his own future. The people of Argos however do not recognize their freedom, because they are too busy feeling guilty for the past. Oreste says to Jupiter that he is the <quote> but he is only king of the people as long as they want him to be. Jupiter however says that the people recognize the Gods because they are frightened of freedom. If you sacrifice the idea of God, then they are left with the anguish of freedom and choice. 

The theme of guilt and remorse can be shown diagrammatically.
(...)

This shows how guilt and remorse are practically synonymous with Religion in the play.

The religious parody starts with the hideous statue of Jupiter which is to be found in the middle of the city. In the first scene, the disguised Jupiter describes to Oreste, how the whole town is constantly in mourning, which is shown because of the fact that they always wear black and is repenting for the murder of their king years ago. The King, Agamemnon became unpopular because he would not let executions take place in public. When they heard him being murdered, the population did nothing and in fact found some sexual excitement in the sound of him being killed. Jupiter says that their passivity was as much a choice to kill him as carrying out the murder themselves. The God says that this is lucky for him, because they are all in repentance and consequently believe in him. God created man so that man could worship God. Electre, at the fête des morts, tries to persuade the people that they are free and don't need to be guilty all the time - that nothing will happen to them, if they stop their repentance. At this moment however, Jupiter performs a little miracle, which re-confirms their belief that they are guilty and need to repent and never be happy.

Oreste is almost like Christ in the play. In a sense he is born during the course of a play and although he does not sacrifice himself, he does sacrifice others, his mother and her husband, to show the people of his native town, that they are indeed free. The play is like the dance of the eternal hell. The "fête des morts" when the dead come back to life, is like Jesus's resurrection and the performing of the miracle, and the moving of the stone by Jupiter, parallel the moving of Jesus's grave stone.

The people in Argos wallow in their guilt. They are on the path to forgiveness and resurrection, but the path leads nowhere, because the God's refuse to let it. They want people to feel guilty and remorseful, because if the people don't need and believe in them, then the Gods are totally powerless. Religion is responsible, along with their fear of the anguish of choice, for their guilt and bad faith. If there were no Gods, the people would recognize that they made their own fate, and that no one is judging them.

<ICLE-BR-SUR-0007.1>

<quote>. In Sartrean thinking, Oreste starts off in this play like a blank slate. His project has yet to crystallize and he is yet to make any choices to determine his course in life. He has been taught by Pédagogue to belive in traditional and customary ideas: <quote>. He also has a false sense of freedom. Up to now he has been like a 'free spirit', he has made no real choices and has yet to realise his project.

Through the first part of the play Oreste shows signs of innocent bad faith. It is innocent as he has no past experience. He believes that people are predestined: <quote>. To Sartre there is no predestination as we control our destiny by the choices we take. Oreste also feels that he could find his past here in Argos. This is again innocent bad faith as we can not acquire an essence by assuming a social role. Furthermore he believes he could develop by taking over in Argos.

Oreste therefore starts off in a position of bad faith and moves throughout the play from this negative denial of consciousness (en-soi) to a position of authenticiy with freedom of consciousness (pour-soi). This transformation is symbolised by Electre's acceptance of him as Oreste her brother and not Philèbe. What primarily inflences him and helps to change him is seeing the bad faith of others in the play. The people of Argos are deluding themselves to escape the anguish of individual freedom and responsibility. They are like objects which are unchanging and are determined by external forces. Their present and future is also determined by a past event - their alleged complicity in the murder. Even the children are brought up in guilt, <quote>. 

It is also Electre's behaviour which helps transform him. At first she seems to refute his self-remorse and it appears that she is trying to get the people to see their bad faith. At the 'fête des morts' she tries to get the people to realise their freedom and is only stopped when Jupiter, in a religious parody of the <?>making<?> of Jesus' <?>tanstae<?>, performs a miracle and moves a stone.

In fact it is such a miracle which becomes the turning point for Oreste. It is no longer <quote> but <quote>. As his project begins to crystallize and he learns from the experiences in Argos he begins to transform in Oreste: <quote>.

After hearing Jupiter and Egisthe talking in the palace he comes to realise his freedom. Jupiter, who parodies the Gods as instead of being the father of the Gods and of mankind is the God of death, reveals that <quote>. Unfortunately man doesn't realise this and so Jupiter and Egisthe having been fooling the people. However, they themselves are forced by their desire for order to play out certain roles. They are prisoners of the way the people look at them and likewise the people are objects in their eyes. As Jupiter says, <quote>. What also helps Orest to realise he's free is that Jupiter says, <quote>.

Oreste therefore comes to realize his freedom and knows that the only way to free the people of Argos from their bad faith into a position of lucidity is to murder Egisthe and Clytemnestre. He thus makes a positive choice and in so doing realises his project. In so doing he is also a parody of Christ. Electre was waiting for him to come and save her. Being a blank-slate was a parody of being new born and then gaining experience through life. He then sacrifices another to save the people from the Gods and redeem them whereas Christ sacrifices himself to give them God's grace and redemption.

Oreste faces a final test. Jupiter tells him that being free is an intolerable burden and that it would be much better to submit himself to the Gods so you don't have to think or take any responsability: <quote>. Jupiter says: <quote>. Sartre believes religion is a contradiction as you can't be free and submit yourself to the will of a God. Oreste, however, resists this test and takes his freedom: <quote>. He feels the anguish of being free and the exile, <quote>, but he also realises that at last he's his own master.

Oreste leaves taking the 'furies' with him parodying the taking away of the people's guilt. Once the city suffered under autocracy but Oreste has given the people the choice of democracy. He has done all he can to show them the way to freedom, he can do no more so he leaves so they can decide their choice. He also leaves to go and suffer in the exile and anguish of his freedom. In Susan Suleiman's terms, Oreste has undergone a positive exemplary apprenticeship. His quest has been to discover his project and he undergoes certain tests to get to his position of authenticity and liberty at the end. Electre on the other hand has had a negative exemplary apprenticeship because in the end she commits the ultimate bad faith by realising her freedom, then giving it up to be once again determined by external forces. Norman Williams shows how Sartre used the classic Greek theory of man thinking he's free where in fact he's always at the mercy of the Gods, and turned it on its head to show that here the Gods fool people into thinking they're not free. Oreste is the only one who overcomes this to realize his freedom.





La chute is dominated by the theme of guilt. In the first act all that Clarence is guilty of is using pompous speech and the subjunctive. However, as he looks back on his life he confesses to other areas of his guilt. In his early days he thought that he was in control of his life: <quote>. However, looking back he realised he was guilty of wanting to dominate others: <quote>. He then experienced the laugh and realises that where before he'd thought he was in a circle with people surrounding him with admiration as his self-admiration reflected at, people were in fact like a line of people judging him. After the incident with his car at the traffic lights he realised he didn't dominate people so he wanted to use force and violence to able to dominate them: <quote>.

Clarence is also guilty of committing two crimes; He stole the painting from the 'Mexico City' and when he was in a concentration camp in Libya he stole the water ration of a man that was going to die. After the laugh then he decides to entre a life of debauchery to escape his guilt and escape people laughing at him. He becomes exhausted with this though and enters a state of indifference from which he's awoken with a start when he thinks he sees somebody drowning as he's on a sea cruise. This makes him realise that he can't escape his guilt and he realises that, <quote>.

<quote> Clarence can't have absolute innocence so he decides to choose absolute guilt. He shows no mercy and comes to epitomise guilt. In his eyes everyone is guilty. It doesn't matter what good intentions you have, it's your actions that count: <quote>. By confessing he's also condemning so both people suffer which is rather Satanic. He professes enslavement by guilt rather that facing the anguish of innocence. He lives in Amsterdam because it's a crossroads for all nationalities, it's a microcosm of all the crimes of the world and therefore full of guilt. He also lives in a 'quarter' of the city where once 75,000 Jews were either killed or deported. People hate being guilty so they judge others before they can be judged. For Clarence even Christ was objectively guilty.

Clarence is also guilty of being duplicitous. After the laugh he realises he's been fooling himself and others  but hasn't realised it because he's been innocently guilty: <quote>. He ran home and looked in the mirror to find, <quote>. It is at this point that instead of being mocked by <quote> he'll undergo conscious duplicity so that people won't be able to mock him.

He becomes a 'juge-pénitent'. We think he's confessing whereas he's just going through a well-rehearsed act. In confessing to a guilty moment in his life he's just encouraging the listener to admit to something worse. La Chute is really <quote> as Clarence is using the example of his guilt as a mirror to show the listener his. Being a 'juge-pénitent' he's superior to the listener because he's already admitted his guilt. At the outset Clarence uses 'je' to confess, then moves to 'nous' which brings the listener, and therefore mankind into complicity with guilt and then it turns into an accusation with 'vous' as he judges the listener. Others who are guilty of being duplicitous are man as, <quote>, Paris as, <quote> and Amsterdam because <quote>.

It isn't until Chapter 6 that Clarence actually reveals to the listener that he is judging him. Whereas he used to like high places he has now found his 'sommet' in Amsterdam below sea level where he sits in judgement on those who are no longer able to judge him as he has confessed his guilt.

Before the laugh when he was a lawyer in Paris, Clarence thought that he was at one with himself: <quote>. But he realises later that he is guilty of judging the people he deals with and people in general as he feels he dominates them.

Guilt is an important theme for Camus. By analogy to the Mythe de Sisyphe, once you become aware of the absurd, the best reaction to it is true revolt which means a rejection of guilt. However, despite all the comparisons you can draw from Clarence to be absurd now, he parodies true revolt as he preaches a policy of universal guilt and commits his whole life to unveiling other people's guilt. He can't have absolute innocence so he wants absolute gult which, in analogy to the Mythe de Sisyphe is a perversion of guilt, revolution.

Triadic structures run throughout the whole of La Chute.

					Eden

			The Fall			Judgement

Eden was where he felt in control of himself in his early life but then came the revelations and the trying to come to terms with them which is the Fall and then there is the final stage of judgement which could also be compared to Hell. There are many allusions to Satanic actions by Clarence throughout the novel. When they go to Marken and Zuyderzee there is the contrast between the clover and the island itself. In his room, the heat is stifling and his name Jean-Baptiste is a parody of Satan. And again he lives below the sea level in Amsterdam as opposed to as on high in the mountains or up in Paris. You also need three knocks to enter his room. Basically Clarence is a Satanic figure who realises and confesses his own guilt in order to make mankind realise their own guilt, and in so doing he judges others before they can judge him.





In order to see how Camus seeks to evoke a degree of sympathy or admiration for Caligula, it's necessary to draw analogies to the Mythe de Sisyphe and to Camus' absurdist theory. Before awareness of the absurd people think they're happy even immortal just as Caligula was a young, innocent idealist with relative values of good. This existence is then shattered by an event which makes you aware that life is futile. For Caligula this event was Druscilla's death. Camus does not try to evoke any sympathy for Caligula over her death as Caligula says there was once a lady she loved but now she's gone. The importance of her death is that it has sprung Caligula into awareness and lucidity of the fact that, <quote>. We will see later that you can sympathize with someone who suddenly realises the futility of life.

He has learnt that <quote>. This isn't an ease load for a young man to carry on his shoulders: <quote>. Once you discover the absurd you search for full understanding and knowledge but eventually you realise this is impossible, that you've separated from nature and this leads to an increasing feeling of exile. Caligula's search for unity with nature is symbolised by the moon. We can understand that his task is a difficult one but he sets to it tirelessly.  <quote>. His logic is that if he can do the impossible, have the moon in his hands, he can change the order of the cosmos and people really will be happy and immortal. This is admirable as he is trying to change the lives of people who think they're happy and immortal but are really unhappy and mortal. His second leg of this logic is less admirable as he decides to force people into the awareness by becoming the agent of death. Death is arbitrary and we have no control over it so Caligula, as E. Freeman ("The theatre of Abert Camus") points out, allies with the absurd and actually propagates it. <quote>. Despite his methods we can admire him for his logic in what he's doing and for his lucidity. He's not quite as mad as he seems: <quote>. Furthermore we can sympathize with his feeling of exile: <quote>.

In the Mythe de Sisyphe Camus shows that the best reaction to the absurd is true revolt which is a denial of guilt and a refusal to submit yourself to a feeling of despair. Initially Caligula feels this despair as he says, <quote>. Instead of being to suppress this feeling it stays with him but this is largely due to the fact that he chooses the wrong method. As for guilt he believes everyone has it and again due to choosing the wrong method of revolt he still has it after killing Caesaria as he turns to the mirror and says, <quote>.

With revolt you need to recognise the limits on your freedom and live life to the full. Again we have to sympathise with Caligula as he tries to find the solution to the absurd and chooses the wrong freedom. His freedom is at the expense of others. He uses absolute power: <quote>. He also realises that philosophical suicide isn't the answer and he rejects the search for the moon.

However, he is left with the despair and anguish of trying to help people but unfortunately choosing the wrong method of doing so. As he turns to the mirror he realises he was wrong, <quote>. He then chooses suicide which is again the wrong reaction to the absurd but his position is such that the are not many other choices.

The other characters help us to see that Caligula's actions can be admirable. Scipion has his father killed by Caligula but this has made him realise the absurd so at least Caligula's policy has had one success. Thrugh discussions with Scipio we see how Caligula really does respect life and enjoys the pleasures of nature. As Scipion says, <quote> and <quote>.

Caligula has Hélicon, a slave he freed by his side. This alone shows admirable aspects and in a powerful speech Hélicon evokes sympathy for Caligula through a comparison with the Patricians. When thinking of the Patricians, himself, Caligula says, <quote>.

Cherea too understands Caligula's logic: <quote>. He understands Caligula and what he's trying to do but again illustrates where Caligula has gone wrong. He believes although the world is futile, there are still good values and it can still be lived in a reasonable way: <quote>. We can now sympathise with Caligula for having gone so wrong, as we see Cherea's theory: <quote>.

Caesaria too understands and sympathises with Caligula. It is here that we discover that Caligula knows there is a happiness once you have become aware. <quote>. Unfortunately he's chosen the wrong method and will not experience this for long.

Camus takes actual reported events that the historical Caligula did. The arbitrary killing, the national <?>,the famine etc. are all unacceptable actions by Caligula. However we can sympathise with these because of his aims and because in a world where man is mortal, Caligula believes <quote> and it doesn't matter when you kill somebody because they're going to die anyway. <?> show that Caligula is the only absurd character with the actual power necessary to carry through his logic so we can sympathise that he turns to this method rather than some less heavy measures. Apart from this, though, Camus evokes more sympathy from things such as the fact that he feels he's killed less people because he's refused to enter three wars. Who can't have sympathy for a man who only sleeps 2 hours each night and spends the rest of his time roaming the corridors of his palace?



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0008.1>

Guilt and judgement is a recurring theme in several of Camus' works. The account of Clamence's fall is not the retelling of an "évenement" but can be more accurately be described as "un état de l'âme", in which Clamance is embued with guilt and the desire to judge other people. Guilt is implicit in the account, due to the fact that it is focalized through the form of a confension, by Jean-Baptiste Clamance, an ex-parisienne lawyer, however it is also implicit in various subtilties throught the play, and alludes to the universal guilt of mankind. Clamance introduces himself as a "juge-pénitent", these term is not clarfied until the end of the novel, and it demonstrates Clamance's tendency to judge people, his desire to feel superior to other people and to apportion guilt to those he encounters.

Clamence's former profession as a lawyer seems to back up this theme. It meant that he was in a milieu of guilt, since he was defending people guilty of crimes, or trying to prove people guilty of crimes. His profession gave him a feeling of superiority. In the court he often felt superior to the judge and he enjoyed the satisfaction he got from looking down on people and judging theme. Guilt and judgement are inherent in the legal system.

In Paris, Clamence led what he thought was a happy and satisfying lilfe. He enjoyed helping people because of the satisfaction it gave him. He continued this existance until he was shaken into acknowledging what he felt was the true state of the world, by a laugh on a bridge. This occurrence made him aware of what he believed what the true state of the world. It broke his current existance and made him aware of his guilt.

Clamence is guilty of several crimes, for example, he had witnessed the suicide of a woman and had done nothing to stop it. Also, whilst a prisoner of war he had drunk the water-ration of a dying man because he (Clamence) was the camp "pope" and therefore judged his life to be more important than that of the dying man. Clamence by the means of a dialogue appears to be confessing his guilt to the enigmatic listener, however, what he is really doing is creating a situation in which having confessessed his own guilt, he exposes universal guilt and accusses the listener of being guilty. Because Clamence has declared his own guilt and shows himself to be aware of it, he exposes the listener to his own guilt, leaving him vunerable. This places the listener in a weak position over whom Clamence feels he has control. Clamence enjoys the feeling of power he gets from judging other people in this way. At face value, he appears to be revealing himself to his audience, however, he is really manipulating his audience so that he can lay there open to his judgement. He seems to have an inherent need to judge other people. He likes high places from which he can look down and judge people, his favorite place, he says is at the top of a high mountain; in Amsterdem, a town which embodies vice and guilt, he sets on high in this symbolically (and physically because it is situated below sea leval) low place, and practises his art as a 'juge-pénitant', a process through which he both reveals his own weaknesses and guilt and then reverses the situation, appartioning the guilt to his listener, because in his view, everyone participates in universal guilt.

Clamence accuses the listener of universal guilt because no one can be completely innocent. Camus raises the idea that even Jesus Christ was guilty, because as as a baby, he escaped death while Herod massacred thousands of baby boys to ensure the destruction of the Messiah. He raises the question of whether people are guilty through non-action as much as through action. For example, during the war, those not participating in the Résistance might be accused of collaboration, or those living next to prison camps might be guilty through their inadvertance.

The title is in itself a suggestion of Guilt and judgement. It applies not only to the suicide when the woman fell into the river, but also to the fall of Clamence, the fall of man, when he fell from his Eden due to the crimes he committed, and it follows from this he is awaiting judgement. It also applies to the fall of Satan and the archangels from heaven because of their crimes. In these cases, Paris is portrayed as the Eden, while Amsterdam, <quote> is portrayed as its antithesis, being a den of vice and the scene of a historic crime, under Nazism, when involving the massacre of seventy-five thousand Jews.

In the first chapter, Clamance points out the place where a painting stolen from the Cathedral at Gard used to hang in the "Mexico-City" bar. In the final act this is revealed to be contained in his cupboard at home. He is therefore guilty of possessing stolen goods. However, he does not regret this since he feels that the bar-owner knows he has it, so it is up to him to do something about it, and also since there is now an exact copy in the cathedral it is irrelevant that he has it.

"La Chute" appears to be the confession of a guilty man, however it is more than this because Clamance is playing the dual role of the confessor and the judge and after confessing his own guilt, he is not necessarily repentent, but gains a greater satisfaction from exploiting the situation to incriminate his partner.



In "Les Mains Sales", Louis accusses Hugo of being nothing more than an anarchist, and hence of no use to the party. It is true that Hugo had ideas and aspirations that did not fit into the framework of the Party because Hugo was obssessed with fulfilling his ideals with as much purity as possible, without dirtying his hands. In practical terms, this is much harder to achieve, but Hugo was young and inexperienced and had not yet discovered this. The play is a learning process for Hugo (although this does not necessarly lead to a positive conclusion), and therefore what Louis calls 'anarchy' is more likely to be a youthful enthusiasm. However, Hugo is not prepared to sacrifice the concept of purity for a more realistic approach and therefore he is unreceptive to the learning process.

In order to examine why Louis took such exception to Hugo it is necessary to reflect on the way in which the Party regarded intellectuals. Hugo came from a bourgeoisie background, consequently, having found a political cause, he was anxious to compensate for his background. He felt guilty of his bourgeoise upbringing and believed that he had to prove himself in some way to the party. Hugo wanted to impress Louis and Olga through some kind of test. However, the party was not interested in this kind of thing. Hugo wanted to prove that he was not some kind of spoilt intellectual and wanted a part in some real action. On the other hand, the party had an already defined view of intellectuals and how they could best serve the party. Louis believed that Hugo short restrict himself to dealing with the jobs that matched his qualities as an intellectual, such as dealing with propaganda, and working on the party newspaper. The more active revolutionary activities, such as terroism, should be undertaken by the masses, who were more expendable then the intellectuals and could be more easily replaced then someone with a particular skill or talent. Hugo could have been of use to the party had he fulfilled the function which Louis wanted him to, and had left the more menial tasks to the masses.

Hugo sought some kind of glorifying test through which he could prove himself. However, the party was not interested in such glorifying tests, which were really a diversion from the fundamental concerns of the party, which were to ensure that the policies were carried out. Any such individual allusions for glory were merely ego trips, and the party did not have time for these kind of frivallries. As Olga pointed out, the party was not some kind of night school.

Hugo should have stuck to doing what he did best and contented himself with a party career in journalism. He was not suited to carrying out the basic revolutionary activities, such as political assasinations and other murders, because, being an intellectual, he was more likely to preponder on the significance of his acts and may have been unable to carry them through, whereas an ordinary party member may not have concerned himself with the same intellectual dilemas that Hugo harboured. This is, in fact, demonstrated by the fact that Hugo was unable to carry out his orders to kill Hoederer and was procrastinating in his moral dilema. He only killed Hoederer in a moment of jealousy and therefore Hoederer's murder can be attributred only to a crime of passion and not to a political crime.

Hugo was unlikely to be of much use to the party because he was to obsessed with a moral purity. He wanted to see certain changes brought about, but without sacrificing his ideals. Whereas Hoederer and the others believed that the means justified the end, and were prepared to negotiate with the other side and make compromises if they believed this would facilitate their victory, Hugo felt that this was hypocracy and bad faith. Hugo was unable to reconcile himself to the loss of purity and consequently could not fit in with party lines. Hence, he was not of much use to the party, since he was unable to adapt to party policies, to fit in with the rulings of others. He was too much of an individual to comply with party discipline. Being a member of the party implied conforming to party ruling, however Hugo was not prepared to sacrifice his principles to do this and was therefore a danger to the party. He was an individual and did not fit in.

This individuality & refusal to conform, obviously implies some kind of anarchy was inherent within Hugo's relationship with the party. However, this can largely be attributed to his youthfulness. 'Les Mains Sales' is a learning process for Hugo in which he is unsuccessful and does not learn to conform to the model favoured by the party. Unable to put aside his own principals, Hugo does not fit in to the party framework and cannot conform to its model. Therefore, he cannot be of much use to the party.



'Les Justes' describes events from the 1905 in Revolution, which was a precurser to the events of 1917. However, with the exception of Stephan, the terrorists in 'Les Justes' are seeking a new world full of love and happiness, and practised a more moderate form of political activity than those who overthrew the régime in 1917.

The characters in les Justes seek a modified form of revolt underwhich the oppressed can be freed of the chains of the oppressers. In "l'Homme Revolté", the forerunner to "Les Justes", Camus describes "les meutrieurs délicats", who seek a change in the system so that the oppressed become free, as opposed to a full-blown revolution, which is merely a rotation of roles so that the oppressed become the oppressers and vice versa.

The terrorists act with restraint in their activities, choosing their targets carefully. Stepan on the otherhand is an absolutist and rejects this saying that revolt has to be all or nothing, that if you are prepared to kill one person for a cause, then you have to be prepared to kill many more, since otherwise their deaths will be futile. When the hero, Kaliayev was engaged to throw the bomb at the Grand-Duke Serge, the culmination of many months of preparation, he backed out at the last minute because the Dukes neice and nephew were travelling with him and Kaliayev could not bring himself to kill innocent children. The other terrorists sympathised with him, with the exception of Stepan who believed that the children were an irrelevance, that it was wrong to be discriminate regarding one's victims and that because these two spoilt children had survived, thousands of Russian children would starve as a consequence.

It is difficult to justify killing of any kind, but Dora and Kaliayev believe that it is possible to compensate for these murders through the giving of their own lives. This, they believe is payment for the deed and eradicates the original crime. This, of course, is an absurd concept, because the loss of two lives does not help those who have died, the death of the guilty murderer does not do the victim any good. Giving up one's life is a negative action, because an activist could help its organisation far more by remaining alive and continuing the cause, whereas a dead man can do nothing to further the cause. Dora and Kaliayev, reconcile each other that they will meet in the after life. In their physical forms, they chastize each other and put aside their love for each other, dedicating themselves to their cause which they believe to be the most important reason for their existance. They make this chivallrous sacrifice to prove their dedication to the cause and seem to commit themselves to a 'monkish' earthly existance. The fact that they are prepared to do this, seems to add worth to the cause due to the fact that they are prepared to make such a sacrifice. They do not put their faith in God (although at his death, Kaliayev turns to God), yet the acknowledge the presence of some kind of metaphysical, where they will meet after their deaths. However, this sacrifice does not do anyone any good, but it simply justifies the cause in their eyes, and reinforces their committment to it.

During his emprisonment, Kaliayev is given three attempts to save his life. He receives three visitors, Foka, a prisonner and an example of the man Kaliayev is trying to free; secondly, he receives a visit from the chief of police, and thirdly, he is visited by the wife of the murdered Grand-Duke. Each time he is offered repentence and the chance of a repreive. However, he is unprepared to implicate his accomplices by revealing their names. It would also morally be an act of bad faith for Kaliayev to back out of his execution, because he believes that by facing death, he can take on the sins of the world and thus repreiving man-kind. Just as Jesus took on the sins of the world, Kaliayev believes that through death he will repent his crimes, while freeing mankind by taking on the burden of their sins. Through death, he hoped to relieve himself of his own sins and thus achieve a state of child-like innocence and purity, truly unburdened of his mis-doings.

After his death, Dora became aware of ther contradictions inherent within the world and realized that she could not face up to such contradictions. She decided that she would rather meet up with Kaliayev in the metaphysical, than continue to live in a world of contradictions, where she could not reconcile her aims, motives, principals and morals with reality. Therefore, she demanded that she should throw the next bomb, knowing that she would die as a result, as a kind of political suicide. It was her reasoning that in this way, one dies twice. The first death occurs when the bomb is thrown, since this condemns one to death, and then the indivdual dies a second time, at the actual execution. Therefore, she believed that one paid for all one's sins twice, expurgigating them two times over.

The terrorists in Les Justes, justified their acts by making various moral and physical sacrificises. However, these sacrifices do little to help either themselves or the injured party.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0009.1>
In Caligula the story is built up through interaction of the characters. All the characters have a negative or positive valouration and thus either help to evoke sympathy for Caligula. Caligula is the sole focus of attention in the play. It is his actions, thoughts and words which designate what will happen throughout the entire story. This focalisation means that eventually it is left up to the reader or audience to decide whether they have any sympathy or admiration for Caligula. Our own values and emotions play a large role in this right from the start when Caligula  is thought to be in mourning for the death of his sister, Drusilla. This grief although incorrectly perceived by his courtiers, perhaps makes us feel sympathy for Caligula. When his patriciens think that the young Emperor is ill or mentally disturbed we may feel sympathy for him if we areselves do not like being unwell.

Caligula is based on Camus' theme of the absurd, which is according to Adèle King "the insoluble opposition between what (man) is and what man desires". From the death of Drusilla until his own death, Caligula his aware of the mortality of human beings and therefore feels the futility of human existence. He murders indiscriminantly, causes famine and even kills his own lover. What man wants is to be immortal and happy, something which, with the knowledge of the absurd, Caligula knows is impossible. However Caligula revolts against the absurd by trying to achieve the impossible so that <quote>. The symbol of this impossibility is the moon. Caligula thinks that if he can have the moon he will be above the gods and in charge of an empire where the impossible is king. Caligula therefore decides to be destiny - <quote>. He wants to show his people the one truth he has - that <quote>. He sets out to show them their immortality and their sadness by killing them. To a certain extent Camus manages to evoke sympathy and admiration for Caligula in that the Emperor wants to share the truth he has found about the world with his people. He wants to help them understand for their own good. He wants to make them aware of the absurd, as he is, so that they can then go on to live quantatively and intensly.

Caligula not only wants to show his people the one truth possible to man, the absurd, he wants to rebel against the absurd in order to make existence more tolerable and less futile for mankind. He wants to destroy the very contradiction of the absurd and make man immortal. He says: <quote>. The reader/audience may admire Caligula for trying to achieve this through aquiring the moon, despite the fact that this is a paradox of Camus' main theory of the absurd. Camus advocates that one should accept the absurd but revolt in the sense that one confronts the absurdity of living and lives as intensly as possible. Caligula has the lucidity to recognise the absurd and revolts. But he revolts without adhering to any limits and does not accept the basic contradiction of man's existence.

Caligula is shown to be logical, an admirable quality to a certain extent. All his actions are linked to his logic and his determination to persue his logic <quote>. His conrtiers recognise that he is logical and that <quote>, even if they do not agree with his logic. Cherea, who admits that Caligula is logical has a positive valourisation for the Emperor. He supports Caligula to a certain degree in the way he 'admires' Caligula for trying to diminish the futility of human existence. Cherea is shown to be right but illogical. He is aware of the absurd and choses the live with it. He wants to be both immortal and happy but knows that this cannot be achieved <quote>. Caesonia also gives a positive value to Caligula's argument. She stands buy him despite realising that he is not following the correct path to achieving his aims. Hélicon is another positive character for Caligula who will not help to kill him, despite knowing that Caligula himself is inviting his own death.

Scipion helps to evoke sympathy for Caligula in that he changes from being totally opposed to the Emperor at the beginning to trying himself to find out the truth that Caligula has hinted to him. What Caligula kills Scipion's father, the younger man is full of hatred for Caligula and his actions. Scipion goes from the one extreme to the other, from absolute hatred to absolute admiration for Caligula. As Caligula also is a man of absolutes, Scipion reinforces his ideas and actions.

The Patriciens force the reader to see Caligula in a more positive light through their hatred for him, their plotting to kill him and their 'apathy' towards existence. They carry on with their lives without trying to find truth, understanding or unity. They accept existence as it is and live accordingly. This makes one admire the effort Caligula puts into being lucid, living quantatively and trying to confront live as much as possible.

From Act III Scene V we see that Caligula has realised that he is perhaps mistaken in the actions he embarked upon. He looks in the mirror and recognises that even if he is wrong he must continue. He can not go back as there have been <quote>. He realises that the impossible, i.e. the moon, can not be acquired but decides to continue, after all, <quote>. To some extent this withdraws sympathy from Caligula for not being able to accept and own up to his mistakes, but on the other hand we may admire him for wanting to persue his logic to the end. However at the end of the play, having killed Caesonia, Caligula finally realises that he too is guilty and that <quote>. He realises that he has not taken <quote> and commits symbolic suicide by throwing the chair and smashing the mirror. He then virtually invites death by the Patricians.

Camus tries to evoke a degree of sympathy and admiration for Caligula through the unique focalisation. We can feel sorry for Caligula for his faults rather than condemn him and admire him for his attempts to make men happy. His relationship with the other characters and their reactions to him also assist in this. Finally, though, Camus leaves it up to us to decide whether Caligula deserves sympathy or admiration by looking at our own values and emotions. In this way the play is didactic aswell as dramatic.



When Jeanson and Sartre accused Camus of judging others without realling studing or understanding the question at hand Camus was hurt and outraged. They said that he judged others in order to retain his superiority. The theme of judegment, intrinsically linked with that of guilt, is very important in La Chute. It refers to Jean-Baptiste Clamence's profession, to the setting of the book and to the theme of religion.

According to Adèle King, Clamence is a "man of clear moral absolutes". He has, according to Rosemarie Jones, no room in his thoughts for the relative. Everyone is guilty (or innocent), there is no middle between divine and human, between good and bad. In Clamence's mind there is no room for the sentence of 'not gulty' and his profession pushes for a confession. He talks of <quote>. Even Christ was guilty. Christ is God made man, a being who is divine and sinless. However, Jesus was responsible for the Massacre of the Innocents and is therefore as guilty as all men. In Clamence's logic, neither God nor Christ can exist. The fact that Clamence sees everyone as being guilty is a parody of Camus' earlier writings on the the absurd in Le Mythe de Sisyphe. In this philosophical work Camus claims that guilt is a notion which stems from the Christian religion. Man can only feel guilty when ordered to by some determinism. A belief in God is an acceptance of a determinism and a rejection of the inherent freedom of mankind. For Clamence, as in Caligula, evryone is guilty of something as all must die. Human existence is futile, as Clamence discovers after witnessing the suicide of a young lady. After this <quote>. He lives with a constant awareness of his mortality, as demanded by an awareness of the absurd, and therefore feels that he is guilty.

Clamence thinks that he is guilty for not having saved the young woman's life. He is constantly reminded by experiences in his life, by the laughter on the bridge and by the debris floating on the water. He is guilty of many things, of hiding the picture of the Just Judges in his room for example.

Guilt is important in the choice of setting for La Chute. Amsterdam is referred to by Clamence as the centre of guilt in the world. It was the scene of the worst crime in human history. In the Second World War Jews were deported from Amsterdam to their death. Clamence has come from Paris to a city which is the epitomy of guilt. The opposite of Amsterdam is seen by Clamence as being the Greek Islands which are sunny and innocent. In Amsterdam Clamence has found <quote> from which he can sit and judge others of their guilt. Clamence also refers to Dante's Hell and alludes to the fact that Amsterdam is his wordly hell. Hell is of course where 'Christian' people who are guilty of sinning are sent. Clamence's room is the inner ring of the nineth Circle of Hell where only the worst traitors are sent. He is the epitomy of guilt, Satan, in his room where he is both hot and cold and cannot escape.

So Clamence has found his "sommet" from which he can judge others. A judge is the person who passes the absolute sentence, the definitive decision. Clamence is a parady on God, also the definitive judge or makes all laws and decisions - <quote>. But God is not needed in Clamence's world. Christianity is not needed to pass sentence and judge others. For <quote>. The Last Judgement is nothing, according to Clamence, compared to the ability of man to judge others. When he lived in Paris, happy and content with his way of life, at one and whole - <quote>, he thought that he was innocent, that there was nothing in him that could be judged. Then the suicide changes his life from <quote> to one of duplicity, of absurdity and he realises <quote>. From his job as a lawyer in Paris he becomes a 'juge-pénitent', someone who not only judges others but also himself.

The whole story told by Clamence is a confession. He is guilty and needs to confess his sins. But in confessing and telling his life to a stranger he is inviting the interlocuteur to confess himself, to judge Clamence and to judge others. For Clamence is not only adovoating his own guilt, but the guilt of all mankind. He confesses and judges others so that he does not  feel more guilty of being different - he wants everyone to feel the way he does so that he can again feel superior to others (Jeanson and Sartre's allusions).

With irony, Clamence has 'stolen' a picture of the Just Judges, he has taken away the panel of judgement from the altar piece at Ghent and has left instead only the back or double of the the panel. The back (the panels were originally  painted on both sides and were sawn in half by the Berlin museum) depicts John the Baptist. Jean Baptiste Clamence is a  parady of the prophet who was <quote>. But Clamence is not the prophet of freedom and Christ, he is the prophet of a kingdom of guilt. He may, in prohesising this kingdom be found guilty and his head be put on a platter for all to see as John the Baptists was, but nevertheless this kingdom is here as all are guilty and will be judged by man.

The themes of guilt and judgement are then very important to the central ideas of La Chute. All are guilty and all will be judged by men. Clamence paradies the religious/christian ideas of guilt and judgement and shows that the modern world cannot cope without some determining order. The modern world is full of hypocrisey as it tries to come to terms with a world without rationalism. So men create their own order and judge others.



When Oreste arrives in ARgos he is effectively a blank state, he has no past and nothing to determine him by. The people of Argos, including the ruling family have, on the other hand an event which dominates their lives. They live with a constant feeling of guilt and remorse. The guilt of the murderers of Agemennon, Clytemnestre and Egisthe, has been extended to all. Every citizen is in permanent mourning, epitomised by one day every year with the "Fête des Morts".

The people of Argos are 'guilty' of the most extreme form of Bad Faith, remorse. In Sartre's earlier works on his existentialist theories 'l'Etre et le Néant' and 'Existentialisme est un humanisme', he explains what he means by Bad Faith. Every human being is free to make decisions. Man has a consciousness and can decide to act or not as he wishes. This is referred to as être-pour-soi. Objects, on the other hand, cannot make decisions. They have no consciousness and are being-in-itself. If man is guilty of Bad Faith, he rejects the fact that he can make decisions and takes on the state of an object. Man is not determined by anything in the past. Our consciousness is separated from the past by nothingness. The citizens of Argos live in ultimate Bad Faith because they are determined by an event in the the past and live in remorse for this event. In Existentialisme Sartre writes that <quote>. Everything in the lives of the citizens of Argos refers back to this event, i.e. to the murder of Agamemnon. Oreste is the only one to realise that this remorse is wrong. He at one stage has managed to make Electre see the truth about man's freedom , but at the end of Les Mouches she falls into remorse once more for the murder by Oreste and into the worst possible form of Bad Faith. She has seen the truth, but has rejected it and accepted the determinism of the gods.

So the people of Argos, including Electre reject the fact that they have a choice. They do not have to remain in this state of remorse. Nothing is determined and they can chose what they want to do. However they are all guilty of accepting the order of the Gods. Les Mouches is a parady of the traditional Catholic Faith. Raymond Williams has pointed out that Greek Myths were used to show that people were guilty of thinking themselves free when in fact they are under the power of the gods. Sartre, then, uses the myth to show that man is free and is guilty only of thinking himself in the power of the gods. Guilt is an inherently religious conception which is used throughout Les Mouches to parady christianity. The people of Argos live with the constant fear and knowledge of their guilt. One lady proclaims that she constantly repents her sins and that she has already taught he young child his <quote>. They have brought him up in <quote> and in the awareness of his guilt. The language of the Catholic church is mocked when one man says, <quote>.

Through the play Oreste learns the truth, that men are free. The original sin of the Gods, according to Jupiter, was to make man mortal and therefore free. He realises that he is not guilty, that all are innocent. If one commits a crime, one should 'keep' the crime yourself. It is your crime, no one elses. If you chose you can reject the guilt of your crime. In the last scene we see Oreste describing his crime as his pride. He feels no guilt and no remorse as he is detached from his past. He feels the responsibility of his own act in that he is an example for others. He hopes that the rest of the citizens of Argos will face the anguish and abandonment that one feels by rejecting the gods and will then reject their guilt and remorse.

The last scene is also puzzling though as Orest claims to be able to take the guilt from everybody - <quote>. Here he is a parady of Christ showing the light and the sun to the world and taking on the sins of man. In Sartre's thinking the only responsibility we can feel for others is in the example we set. We can not take on their guilt or remorse as this would be an act of Bad Faith. Electre, as I have already said, falls into a state of supreme Bad Faith by continuing to feel guilt and remorse. She is not prepared to face the feeling of anguish or abandonment at not having anything to be "accrochée" to. It is not clear what the citizens of Argos will do, whether they will continue to live the past, to be determined by the fête des morts and by the gods, or whether they will realise their freedom and start living into the future.

The themes of guilt and remorse are then very important in the play Les Mouches. They are linked with Sartre's ideas on Bad Faith and on religion. For Sartre God cannot exist as nothing can be an être-en-soi and an être-pour-soi. His existence is simply impossible. The people of Argos are guilty of feeling remorse, of Bad Faith and of denying their freedom by believing in the impossible God.
 
  


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0010.1>
Political violence in 'Les Justes' and 'Les Mains Sales' is a very important aspect of both works. However the way the violence is carried out, the immediate aims of the violence and the victims of this violence are all different. One common denominator however is that the violence is carried out in the name of the communists.

The first difference I wish to make is that regarding the target of political violence. In Les Justes, the violence is directed at the ruling members of 1905 Russia. Assassination attempts are carried out by members of the terrorist wing of the revolutionary party on the Grand Duke Sergei with the eventual achieved objective of killing him. Thus the political violence of Les Justes is directed in such a way at the opposition with the ultimate objective of returning the lands to the people, thereby freeing them from oppression, tyranny and most tangibly hunger.

In 'Les Mains Sales', the political violence is an internal affair inside the communist/socialist alliance. The country of Illyria in Central Europe is ruled by a Fascist Regent yet he is not the target for political violence. Indeed he is the object of Hoederer's attention, Hoederer being the leader of the socialists. Hoederer wants an all party alliance with the Fascists in order to get a slight grip on power with the ultimate aim of complete power if his devious plan to undermine such a coalition government comes off. The political violence here concerns the communist leaders attempt to have Hoederer murdered by planting Hugo into Hoederer's office as his secretary. Hugo has orders to kill Hoederer.

A second issue concerning political violence in the two works concerns the philosophy behind assassination. In 'Les Mains Sales', there is an atmosphere in which political assassination is nothing shocking or seen as wrong. It is not necessarily an every day occurrence, but members of the communist revolutionary party recognise that they are tools of the party and the party has a large control over their lives. Hugo's revolt against the party leadership is not out of disagreeing with the objective of murdering Hoederer. Hugo sees the underhand dealings of Hoederer in a bad light and the fact that he takes so long to carry out the act is because he's not a good assassin. Hoederer's disagreement with the party hierachy concerns the abrupt change of policy which has been forced on them by Moscow which now accepts the validity of Hoederer's negotiating position. The fact that Hoederer takes so long in committing the murder act results in Olga, a party worker and lover of Hugo being despatched to Hoederer's offices to throw a bomb through the window. The bomb does not succeed but Olga has been prepared to do this, knowing that Hugo was probably in the room at the time. Later Hugo does not condemn Olga for this act, quite a remarkable feat considering she could easily have killed him if her aim had been truer.

By contrast in 'Les Justes' political violence is paradoxically seen as both necessary and yet wrong. In 'L'homme Révolté' this paradox is discussed at length by Camus. The <quote> who are portrayed in 'Les Justes' are discussed in L'homme Révolté. They were a group who recognised evil in the form of the Grand Duke Sergei and other members of the ruling class and yet by exterminating these people, they realised they were perpetrating crimes of equal magnitude. Therefore Kaliayev who is at the centre of most of the action in 'Les Justes' has to wrestle with this problem and indeed because of his love of human life postpones his first assassination attempt on the Grand Duke as there were children in the carriage as well. The acts of violence are accepted in both works yet certainly in 'Les Justes' are kept to a minimum and the perpetrators in Les Justes feel guilty about them and are prepared to pay for taking a life by paying back with their own lives. This is what Kaliayev does allowing himself to be caught after his murder of the Grand Duke.

A third contrast in the treatment of political violence is the difference in attitude of the assassins. Both have the end objective that one day their respective oppressed lands will be free and controlled in the interests of the people and not for the benefit of the ruling class. Both are indeed seen as not actually representing the working class. Hugo is a bourgeois and Kaliayev like Hugo can not relate to the ordinary citizen. Kaliayev is misunderstood by <?> in prison, Georges and Slick do not understand Hugo. However Kaliayev carries out his political violence for the good of other people. He hopes that by sacrificing himself, good will prevail over evil in the future. It is an almost 'Christ like' sacrifice whereby Kaliayev takes on the guilt of others so they can be free. Camus writes with hindsight yet clearly admires the comportment of Kaliayev and the lucidity which the group show about what their actions actually mean in an absurd world without a higher judgement. Camus writes knowing that for all their good intentions, the 'meurtries délicats' fail and the 1917 revolution produces a very unfair oppressive society.
In Les Mains Sales Hugo is really acting in his own interests. He readily admits that he does not like other people as they do not like him. Hugo is on a quest to find himself and to impress Olga and Louis, the communist leader so as to prove his worth.
Both hugo and Kaliayev differ over their violence though both eventually carry it out after much internal delibaration. Kaliayev contemplates suicide after his initial failure, Hugo cannot even see his own deliberation and has to be reminded by his wife Jessica of what his actual task is.

A final point worthy of note is the use of women in prominent roles in the political violence. Olga in Les Mains Sales throws a bomb at Hoederer's office and has sufficient weight in the party to allow Hugo time to tell his story before he is taken away by Louis for probable death. Dora asks to be next in line for throwing a bomb after the death of Kaliayev. This proves that if the cause is deemed just and the women are prepared for the job, that political violence can be carried out by anyone. The realm of political violence is not a man's world alone.



According to Sartrean theory guilt and remorse are acts of "bad faith". Sartre has attempted to analyse the meaning of existence in earlier works and he believes man is free. Through conciousness and awareness, man can change. He can create his own essence whereas a table for example is a fixed inanimate object in the material world which cannot change itself. Sartean freedom implies, choices, action, responsibility for these choices and a denial of the Gods. Man is the centre of the Sartrean world in which <quote> as he writes in "l'Existentisalisme est un humanisme". Therefore to show remorse and guilt means that one is looking back retrospectively which one should not do. The past cannot be changed. 

At the end of 'Les Mouches' oreste carries out the murder of Egisthe and Clymtenestra. In normal parlance, the act of murder is one that requires guilt and remorse. However Oreste frees neither. Oreste has realised his freedom as the play has evolved, a fact cemented by overhearing Jupiter and Egiste talking. As Jupter says, <quote>. Oreste believes that the act was right at the time freeing the citizens of Argos from their collective guilt over the murder of Oreste's father Agemenon, carried out by Egiste and Clytemnestra. Oreste does not see the act as revenge but justice. Sartre says that man is responsible for his actions as by his acts he sets an example to others to follow. However the act is both noble and austere.

In sharp contrast, Electre who is Oreste's would be accomplice, despite the fact that she too hears Jupiters revealing conversation feels guilt for the act of Oreste and faced with the liberty and freedom, which at first is overpowering when one recognises the world is absurd and without meaning, decides to accept the explanation of Jupiter and the furies and to live in a world which appears more comforting and yet to Sartre is obvious bad faith. To signify this bad faith, Sartre turns her once pretty face ugly, like that of her mother Clytemnestra.

The Gods use guilt and remorse to control the way people act. Guilt and remorse are most important in the christian belief and the 'fête des morts' which is an annual christian festival is used as a tool by Egiste and Clytemnestra to keep order. As Marx had said "Religion is the opium of the masses" and numerous political leaders through history have used religion for this aim. The 'Fête des morts' is a festival in which a stone is rolled away from a tomb allowing the spirits of the dead to come out and haunt the people and the rulers for 24 hours. The language of the people while they wait for the stone to be moved reveals the remorse felt by the people and helps explain why the festival has become such an important event. The children of Argos are brought up in this atmosphere of guilt and remorse which will undoubtedly further its cause. Only Electre appears to want to 'break the mould' of the average participant at the 'Fête des Morts' but her protest is relatively a failure.

The act which had begun the event of the 'fête des morts' had occurred when Agememnon, the father of Oreste and Electre by Clytemnestra had been murdered by Egiste, the lover of Clytemnestra. There had been consternation as Agememnon had not allowed the people to watch people being beheaded. Beforehand though Argos had been a happy place. Egiste and Clytemnestra feel guilt about this act and the burden is shared by the people of Argos who feel that as they had done nothing to prevent the murder, they too were guilty. This has interesting parodies with the occurences going on in Nazi Germany and Vichy France. Many interesting questions have been raised such as if by collaborating in order to save your life were you guilty for the horrendous crimes committed by the Germans. Were Germans acting under orders guilty and were Germans at home who knew about the crimes but pretended to forget them for their own safety obliged to take on guilt and remorse for not having acted to stop the atrocities. Such questions are difficult to answer as is where the citizens of Argos guilty for the murder of Agememnon. After all Egiste was still in power until Oreste returned to the city.

Finally Oreste feels remorse that he had spent so much time away from Argos. Argos was where he had been born and he looks longingly at the castle of Egiste thinking how many times he should have gone in and out of the gates. He meets his mother Clytemnestra when she comes out to collect Electre who has been talking to Oreste whilst she did her dirty household chores. Oreste feels sadness for the upbringing he has missed out on. He feels Argos is rightfully his. However, by dwelling on the past, Oreste is showing bad faith and his decision to leave the city once he has called Egiste and Clytemnestra and defied the Gods is a sign that Oreste has matured and recognised his freedom and that the people of Argos finally have the choice over their own destinies. They will have to decide what to do with the power vacuum left behind by Oreste.



 
As Albert Camus quite rightly explains in the opening lines of Le Mythe de Sisyphe, there is only one real philosophical question. Is life worth living. Everyone at some stage in their life has asked this question to themselves. What am I doing here? Why am I writing this exam? What good will it do me? It is all too easy to get very depressed and yet such questions enter the mind of the most stablest of persons.

The futility of life is that it could end tomorrow, next year or in eighty years. By your actions you can help preserve your life but Camus himself died in a carcrash in 1960. There is a thirst for God, for the knowledge of why we are here and how the world was created. In 'Le Mythe de Sisyphe' Camus explains at length 2 of the options man has when he discovers that the relationship between man and the world is incomprehendable. One either commits suicide or one takes the leap of faith by believing in God.

Man desperately wants a clarity of knowledge a unity with the world and yet he cannot achieve it. Scientific discovery is always relative never absolute and there is always someone else who comes along to further the cause of science and disprove or displace the previous truth. The means of communication between men by which man understands his fellow man are too limited to be able to explain the absurd nature of the world. Camus himself recognises this and does not claim to have all the answers. We could say that everything is false but that would be a truth so how could everything be false? Everything in the world appears to be given and yet nothing can explain it. 

If the one truth you have though is that the relationship between man and the world is absurd then to commit suicide and take your life would be stupid for you would be denying the one truth that you had. Even if you decided to live, the leap of faith and belief in religion is not the option you should take either. Religion impedes on man's freedom, he will have to enter a relationship of servitude with a God which will inhibit his ability to live life as fully as possible. It is a matter of despair to Camus that a philosopher such as Chekov should research deeply into the absurd and faced with the choice of saying the world is absurd or believing in God, he chooses God which to Camus is the ultimate sin because it offers comforts to people which are not based on truth. The existence of God cannot be proved, all that can be proved is the absurd.

It would appear so far that Camus has argued well for the futility of life. However he goes on in 'Le Mythe de Sisyphe' to try and proove life is worth living. He feels despair in a way about man's situation. He believes the absurd to be cruel but yet by contemplating the absurd and pardoxically by lucidity giving life meaning while knowing it has not got any, man can revolt against the absurd. The actual myth of Sisyphys typifies this reaction and is designed to give the reader hope and an example to follow. Sisyphus is a demigod who dies and on whose orders his wife throws his body into the street without burial. Sisyphus is given special dispensation by the Gods to come back to earth to sort his wife out. Sisyphus though misuses his time on earth and is hastily returned to the Gods who punish him. His task is to push a big boulder up a hill which continually falls down again just as he is about to reach the top. By this act though Sisyphus actually relishes the challenge. He knows he will never succeed, he does not project himself into a future where he will succeed and by his struggle he has a dignity of action which no one can take away. He takes heart out of his punishment and honour from it too so as to directly "attack" or revolt against the absurdity of the task which will never be accomplished. In this way Sisyphus gives his life a meaning and Camus wishes to encourage people in their moments of anguish and despair or bereavement that a happiness out of the world can be achieved. Sisyphus would appear to the reader to be happy in his task which would seem a terrible punishment.

The Chapter on "lhomme absurde" in "Le Mythe de Sisyphe" reveals also the character of Don Juan. Recognising in his lucidity the absurd nature of the world, Don Juan lives his life quantatively instead of qualitatively. It is his object to cram in as many experiences as he can into his life for man has no idea of when he will die. Don Juan's experiences are of the sexual kind. He dismisses love as emotional suicide for it is an emotion which will pass. Desire does not last for ever, typified by the climatic experience of sexual intercourse. By living quantatively therefore life appears to have a purpose.

In the earlier work of Caligula, Caligula's quantative experience is murder. Camus recognises that such logic and reaction are not possible outcomes of this line of thinking. Camus himself must have contemplated suicide on a number of occasions as he had a horrid time with TB throughout his life. At first glance 'Le Mythe de Sisyphe' could be interpreted as being very negative in approach and indeed quite pessimistic. However man's desire for truth keeps him on the path of life and Camus is convinced that the contemplation of the absurd and struggle against it can actually be a rewarding experience.

  






































<ICLE-BR-SUR-0011.1>
In the play 'Caligula' Camus is dealing with the themes of death and the absurd, and throughout the play we can see different characters reacting in different ways. They also however interact with each other, making the arguments of the other more credible or maybe discounting other's arguments and thus swaying the audience to one side. It can be said that this is the case in 'Caligula', it is amazing that we can have sympathy with Caligula at the end of the play after seeing his deeds - but through studying his words and the words and actions of others we can see how this is so.

At the beginning of the play, Drusilla, his sister, dies. The audience is clearly able to sympathise with death and the effect of mourning - but we are confused to hear later that the 'death' only revealed a 'verité' to him - <quote>. Shocked that it is not for his sister that he mourns but the state of the human condition, Caligula however manages to open our eyes to a 'wider' truth and we begin to find him fascinating.

He announces that he wants "la lune" - which seems rediculous to the audience, but to other characters in the play it is perfectly acceptable. Hélicon agrees to help him in his search - saying <quote> - and we begin to accept this too. We see that he is searching for something out of reach, and we have sympathy knowing that the moon is impossible. Camus explores this theme in Le Mythe de Sisyphe where he says thant man searches for truth, understanding, clarity, onnes with nature, and innocence, but instead recieves lies, disorder, and a separation of man and nature ending in death not immortality - and warns <quote>. The audience knows that the moon is not <quote> and takes pity.

Scipion plays a great role in swaying the audience's opinion over to Caligula's side. We admire him - his father was killed by Caligula, but he has stood up to the fact and does not take such drastic action as Caligula on discovering the human condition. Scipion is seen to be the mirror image of Caligula <quote>, and they discuss together just before the poet scene on their similar views - when Scipion reveals to him that he wites poems. They are both seen as taking pure, logical action which is admired by the audience, as they do not take part in hypocricy as the Patricians do. Each thinks that they are alone - Caligula says <quote>, but we admire him for taking a logical stance, as Scipion admires (and also fears) him for this. This idea is taken up in Le Mythe de Sisyphe, where the absurdist man lucidly goes in search of knowledge and unity. But we also find in Camu's earlier works the idea of the paradox between joy and despair - <quote>, and Caligula and Scipion together epitomise this paradox - Scipion says in his poem <quote>. He understands Caligula, but at the same time is unable to reconcile the paradox - Scipion <quote> has to leave Caligula <quote> because he is afraid of the other side of the mirror and the side he must somehow compromise with. We have sympathy with Caligua despite his actions at this point because he first of all admires Scipion for his <quote> and he understands him. He also does not kill him, but quiety falls silent and merely says <quote>. At this point we agonize along with Caligula, and hope that he will give up his reign of terror - he however cannot look at his miror image - Scipion in the face, and turns back once more, refusing to live somewhere inbetween 'le pur' and 'le mal'.

Scipion also sought to justify Caligula when talking to others - he said of him <quote>, and he obviously admired him greatly before the death of Drusilla. At the end the audience is informed that Scipion loves him, and cannot participate in his murder.

Caesonia and Cherea also portray Caligula in a positive light and evoke sympathy for the audience for him. Caesonia is devoted, bodily and spiritually despite his actions - she mekly says <quote> . We the audience can identify with her view - it is logical, but she is merely emotional and humanistic - simply giving herself to Caligula, and not lucidly pursuing to form her own life as Caligula does. Chérea in the same way, refuses to side completely with the Patricians, who are despised by us for their hypocrisy, and therefore portray Caligula in a positive light. Chérea says he undestands Caligula, and says he is more similar to him than the Patricians. This also puts Caligula a step up in our estimation, as Cherea portrays a humanistic approach - probably very similar to the audience's.

We are repulsed at the end of the play at Caligula's actions, but in the last scene he breaks down and admits that his way was not the right way - <quote>.

He was trying desparatlely "for the good of Rome and the future to show the nature of the absurd, and make man aware of life - but he was not able to carry his own rock, or keep pushing it up the hill as Sisyphe - he was not <quote> because he refused to accept the paradox of joy and despair, and live in the "golden mean" - (Crinkshank)

We see at the end, anguish and tragedy - and admiration tuns to sorrow as Caligula emotionally and dramatically smashes his reflection in the glass declaring his willingness to die and give up.




Clamence cries out at the end of La Chute - <quote> - he realises that he is alone in the world, and concludes - <quote>. Clamence reaches a point of despair at the end <quote>, and we can see throughout the novel what has brought him to this sense of despair, and what and who has betrayed him during his life.

Through talking to the invisible 'interlocuteur' and revealing his past life to us through monologue and heavy irony he tells us of certain areas of his life where he has had to change, and has been 'robbed'. 'Le rire' as he is crossing the bridge is the place in his life when his smile becomes "double". The theme of duplicity in the novel highlights the two sides to his nature - and so reveals to him the side he has 'lost' and so has been betrayed by the 'laugh'. Clamence explains throughout the book how he lost his innocence, silence, simplicity and truth because of this one laugh on the bridge. He lost his 'Eden', and began to fall until he reached his hell in Amsterdam. 

He began to think that everyone was laughing at him <quote>, and <quote>, to reveal him as a guilty man, and no longer upright, honest and modest. This is explained in a very ironic tone, as Clamences uses false modesty throughout, showing yet another duplicitous side to his nature - truth - and falsehood.

Clamence also lost his sense of silence, which was so important to Camus in earlier writings especially l'Etranger. When he heard the laugh - <quote>. As he tries to escape the laugh through debauchery he still hears <quote>, and then he decides to stop the laugh complelety and take on the job of judge, and penitent at the same time, so that noone can laugh at him, and he has time to confess before they speak. This is also reflected in the narration - which is a cacophony of sound, a <?> monologue where his 'interlocuteur' cannot speak, and his silence is forced by Clamence.

Clamence has also been betrayed by the laugh in losing his sense of truth and simplicity. He notices the barman and <quote> - probably envying him. Likewise, he indulges in lies - <quote> and <quote> Clamence finds, as does Camus in Le Myth de Sisyphe that truth and understanding are unobtainable. Clamence also loses his sense of clarity <quote> he says - and we notice the presence of fog and mist in Amsterdam - and "ce brouillard" of debauchery as he attempst to escape his betrayl.

His betrayl by the laugh has meant that he has fallen from the lights to the depths - where he has created his own circle of hell for himself. He used to love being "au dessus", but now he is in the cente of the circle of rings of hell in Amsterdam - (referring to Dante's Inferno). He blames this on man, and announces univesal guilt to the world, where there is no more innocence. His betrayl has led him to become 'un faux prophète' who announces univesal guilt, where there is also no saviour.

It is not only Clamence however who feels betrayl, Camus aswell comes through the satire and irony from time to time to reveal deep painful emotions and his sense of betrayl in the 1950s. His novel l'Homme Revolté caused Jeanson to react violently, and critise the book. He accused Camus of having 'l'esprit pur' and being a moralist, unconcerned with the plight of people who join revolutionary organsations. The novel warned against revolution saying that "revolt as an expression of human consciousness is innocent, whereas revolution which takes its basis from violence is guilty" (Ginkshank)

Camus felt complelety misundestood, and was at a time in his life when he felt deep depression and felt alone in the world with no friends. He had lost his existentialist friends, after writing an aggressive letter to Sartre about Jeanson's reaction. He felt that man was too concerned with ideas, and not with the precious side of human life, and the need to preserve it. The novel 'La Chute' is about <quote>, and what happens if extemes are taken too far.

There are many 'extremes' throughout La Chute. The dialogue which is authoritarian, and continuel prones narration to the exteme. Guilt is also seen as an exteme. There is no innocence, and the whole universe is "objectively" guilty. Camus feels betrayed by the society he lives in - we see glimpses of this in Clamence's narration <quote>, and Clamence says very ironically <quote>. This is also a glimpse of Camus, who was accused of writing to 'nicely' in L'Homme Révolté, and of staying 'on top' of the idea - superior to it.

Camus felt betrayed in the fact that he had lost his 'silence' - symbolised in the 'dialogue', he had lost his 'Eden' - (it was known that he loved Algeria, the sun, the country, his  mother and peace), and he had been betrayed by his own friends who did not understand him. This is symbolised in the structure of the novel where it is hard to find a single point of reference, and follow his monologue - (Clamence's).

Camus was known to have felt very alone, and feels he must hold up the mirror of his face to others - a face which repents of his past acts and also judges others. Gaillard says of Camus <quote>.

It can be concluded then that not only Clamence, but also Camus feels a sense of betrayl. After holding up a mirror to fellow existentialists - they may also feel betrayed as they begin to fall, but we also, the reader are involved in the novel. Clamence makes no answer the questions - <quote>. We perhaps too will feel betrayed after reading La Chute.




The play Les Mouches seems to revolve around the themes of guilt, remorse and death - nearly everyone in the play at some time takes refuge in remorse (perhaps not Oreste) which is a sign of bad faith or mauvaise foi according to Sartre.

La 'mauvaise-foi' - is when a person denies their liberty when it is placed before them and takes refuge in past values, religious creeds, or anything which prevents a man from making his own choices, and working out his own liberty. Sartre says in L'Existentialisme est un Humanisme, <quote> and <quote>.

The past in Les Mouches is seen to be very important to the majority of the Argine population - in fact all of them. The people of Argine blame themselves for the death of Agamemnon and spend their livs in remorse for their 'act' (they in fact only 'looked on'). Even the children are taught how to repent <quote> a woman says to Jupiter. La fête des Morts is a culmination of their repentence, when the dead are 'resurrected' and come to live amongst them for the day. They scream out repentence at the festival and are seen as being unable to shake off the feeling of guilt at the end of the play.

Sartre in L'existentialisme est un Humanisme outlines the meaning of reverting back to the past and falling into bad faith. Instead of being 'pour-soi' and free and disponible to act, and take responsibility for the future, the people fall back into the past and take on the value of an object - 'être en soi'. These values are seen as viscous and opaque, not clear, as they try to mould their consciousness into that of an object which cannot be aware of surroundings - it is simply there. If man were free, then he would not look to the past. He would recount past values, and make new ones for the good of himself and for mankind - 'être pour autrui' - and the existentialist hero is portrayed by Oreste.

Both Cytemnestre and Egisthe too are caught up in remorse and bad faith. They are tricked by Jupiter who gives them 'certain' freedom, but they are defined also by past values, and the 'condifence trick' of Jupiter. Jupiter too is in bad faith - he does realise that man can be free - he reveals this to Egisthe and also to Oreste unknowingly, but himself rejects this. He is in power, and he is happy with the established order and traditions.

Electre on the other hand shows signs of promise at the beginning of the play - she draws Oreste to the city, and revolts against the order, refusing to feel guilty, and protests at 'la fête des morts' by wearing a colourful dress and attempting to cause a revolt amongst the crowd. We assume that she will be the existentialist heroine at the start of the play, but it is revealed later on that she too took refuge in the past and in her emotions.

After the murder of Egisthe and Clytemneste she is momentarily exstatic - <quote>. We soon find out however that the idea of killing Egisthe and Clytemnestes was her raison d'être <quote> she says, and she is unable to look to the future. Emotions preclude reflective action and she is unable to be free, whilst Oreste displays relective action without emotion - <quote>. He, we notice, is 'angoisse' which is a Sartrian prerequisite for freedom and clear reflection. Electre on the other hand shows metaphysical emotion - and tries to regain the past - the 'trésor'. At the end of the play she is said to have taken on the qualities of Clytemneste - an 'opaque' - like face, and this is a symbol for her reversion to the 'en-soi' state.

Oreste on the otehr hand, although unsure of himself at the beginning of the play becomes more lucid as the play moves along. With the help of Electre and Jupiter who helped to show him his liberty, he becomes more 'fluid', and decides to act for himself and for others.

He refuses to take on the values and traditions of his own town, he is also willing to leave Electre, in pursuit of his freedom. He acts as the saviour - holding up a new "regard" for the people of the town to copy. Sartre says in l'Existentialisme est un Humanisme, <quote>, and Oreste says to Jupiter at the end <quote>. He must leave and face the 'futre' on his own - Sartre says <quote>, but Oreste decides to take on his liberty and leave the traditional values and Gods, to become 'disponible' for other acts of freedom.

Guilt and remorse then in Les Mouches go together with la mauvaise foi, and only Oreste at the end of the play rejects guilt and leaves the city displaying (as it says in l'Existentialisme est un Humanisme) that <quote> because man can effectively make his own life, and be judged on his own decisions.





<ICLE-BR-SUR-0012.1>
The semiotic square above represents the way in which Cherea and Caligula are presented in the play.

Caligula starts off as a fresh idealist, believing in the 'relative'. His eyes are opened to the absurdity and apparent futility of life by the death of Drusilla for whom he had an incestuous love. He consequently adopts the logic that the only way of defeating this absurdity is to attain the impossible, represented by the his desire to possess the moon. He maintains this logic throughout the play and thus exemplifies the lucidity of one who is aware of the absurd: <quote>.

His logic is, however, shown to be morally wrong. He espouses death, orders arbitrary killings and thereby conducts the politics of the land based on the concept of quantitive ethics: one has to die at sometime so why not die sooner than later. In this way, he is shown to have lost all sense of social bonds and scruples.

Despite these crimes he is, however, seen to have the respect of others around him. Cherea, for example, respects his logic and admits that <quote>. This is what Caligula intends to do in the belief that <quote>. 

The patricians reinforce the effect that Caligula is to some extent respectworthy:

The semiotic square above illustrates how the patricians contrast Caligula. Whereas Caligula has some attributes of the absurd man, the patricians are motivated to kill him by self-interest. Scipion also shows understanding of Caligula and even goes out on behalf of the latter's quest. 

Caligula believes that: <quote>. To make his people aware of this he decides to make them die and unhappy.

It is Cherea and Caesonia who show that the Emperor's logic is morally wrong. Caesonia replies to Caligula's policy by saying: <quote> - why make life worse than it already is? She suggests that he could put his power to better use by implementing measures that would make the world a better place, and that the possible deserves its chance as much the impossible.

Cherea reinforces this concept and expands on it in Act III, Sc(iv) when he discusses their differences openly with Caligula. He espouses the belief that people need security in life and that they can be relatively happy in their fixed patterns; that no-one wants to live in a world where anything can happen at any time. It is for this reason that Cherea kills Caligula for a better world to live in. In this way Cherea is closer to the ideal existentialist as discussed in Camus' earlier work 'le mythe de Sisyphe'. These works can be read in conjunction with each other and to some extent 'Caligula' is an answer to the ideals conveyed in 'le mythe'. Caligula can be seen to be a peversion of those ideals - an extreme. He symbolises the dangers inherent in the existentialist philosophy.

Caligula's logic is shown to be based on a false assumption: that because people die life is futile. 'Le mythe de Sisythe' suggests that a better starting point for the existentialist is the view that living in itself is the value of life. While accepting the anguish and solitude, from which Caligula complains of suffering, that are inherent in the awareness of absurdity one should live life to its fullest extent; Caligula instead espouses death. Whereas 'le mythe' argues against suicide for these reasons, Caligula, after the death of Drusilla, can be seen to be committing philosophical suicide, the end of which is symbolised towards the end of the play by his shattering the mirror.

Camus also suggests that the Emperor is wrong because Caligula admits he is wrong. In a sililoquy in front of the mirror he admits, in an ironical tone, that it is too late to turn back now because there had been 'trop de morts' - he labels himself an idiot.

By means of contrast between Caligula and Cherea, Caligula shown to fail and Cherea strong and prudent throughout, the former is shown to be logical, but morally wrong, based on a false assumption, while the latter is shown to be morally right. Read in conjunction with 'le mythe de Sisyphe', however, Cherea does not seem to be illogical, for he shows understanding of Caligula's logic.


 

There seems to be a significant missing element in 'Les Justes'. Being concerned with the exploits of terrorists it fails to deal with social and political conditions in any detail. Instead the play is  more a drama of ideas being expressed by a mixture of abstract discussion and the release of emotions by the group.

Although based on history the play is lacking in verisimilitude: it is surprising that terrorists, whose function should be to provoke terror, should have so many scruples:

In the play one might expect the revolt by the terrorists against the Czarist forces to culminate in revolution and the liberation of the Russian people. Instead it appears that only protest is achieved. This may be explained by the group's preoccupatin with morals, best illustrated by the contrast between the characters of Kaliayev and Stepan.

Kaliayev is given a moral and quasi-religious aura. He is seen to be joyful and enthusiastic in relation to the group's cause. There are several indications that he is Christ-like: although when asked whether he is a believer (in Christianity) he replies <quote> this being indirect implicature that he is. This is confirmed when he crosses himself in front of an icon. The most significant example of his scrupulous personality is his inability to throw the bomb on the first occasion to avoid killing the children of the Grand-Duc.

This incident provokes unease and confusion among the terrorists which in turn invites abstract discussion, the most significant of which is the confrontation between Stepan and the rest of the group who side with Kaliayev. The argument as to whether Kaliayev should have thrown the bomb illustrate the difficulties and contradictions which face the group in their attempt to achieve their political objectives.

Stepan points out that Kaliayev's failure puts the group at greater risk. He is a fervent supporter of discipline and brotherhood and accepts the need for killing in order to achieve a greater good later.

Dora replies that the killing of the Grand-Duc would have furthered their cause, yet the murder of children would be futile and bring disfavour to their cause. Stepan argues that the death of a few aristocrats' children is a small price to pay for the lives of the hundreds of starving children in Russia.

To this Kaliayev suggests that one cannot be sure about the future. This is significant because it exemplifies the inconsistency which exists between the terrorists (except Stepan) wish to achieve their goal and their attitude and means of doing so. Stepan is therefore shown to be logical in his approach whereas Kaliayev even has doubts as to whether anything will be achieved, an attitude which is not advisable if one wants revolution.

Despite this the terrorists' moral approach invites admiration. Kaliayev is presented in a more favourable light than Stepan - the latter is seen to kick Kaliayev when he is down while the rest of the group tend to back Kaliayev. This may suggest that Camus is endorsing a moral approach to achieving political aims. It is logical, as Stepan says, that if you do not kill enough, it is not worth killing at all; Stouratov also expands this argument when he puts it to Kaliayev that if his 'idée' is worth killing a Grand-Duc why is it not acceptable to kill the Grand-Duc's children? Kaliayev is unable to answer this.

Camus shows that even if a moral victory is achieved by the terrorists, little is achieved in practical terms. They fail to overthrow the Czarist forces and bring about revolution. The question thus arises as to the purpose of Kaliayev's death. It could be seen as the most supreme protestation possible. On the other hand, it could be interpreted as an easy way out - as Dora says: <quote>.

The result is therefore riddled with contradictions which appear to remain unresolved by Camus. It for this lack of verdict that the play has been criticised. This appears unfair, since it may have been Camus' aim simply to illustrate the difficulties of reconciling political objectives with moral example and which he successfully achieves.



The semiotic square (opposite) represents the value system in 'Les Mouches' which is essential to the understanding and context of the themes of guilt and remorse in the play.

The starting point of Sartre's ontological theories is the Cartesian notion: 'I think, therefore I am'. Existence is proved by the ability to think. Sartre distinguishes between consciousness and the objcets of one's consciousness 'être en soi' and 'être pour soi'. The objects of one's consciousness are what the consciousness focuses on. They are therefore fundamentally different. There are consequently two modes of existence as Sartre sees it: existence without consciousness and therefore without meaning, and that with these. It is hence a metaphysical notion that the body is separated from its consciousness by a gap termed 'nothingness'. According to Sartre this separation of body from mind is what makes man fundamentally free.

This means that man always ultimately has a choice in reacting in a particular set of circumstances. This aspect of choice is fundamental in 'Les Mouches' because the people of Argos have chosen to conduct their lives in an atmosphere of guilt and remorse. As the semiotic square shows, because the people have choice they could equally cross the diagram and live a life of authenticity and freedom.

Instead they turn to what Sartre terms bad faith. This essentially means that one denies the truth of one's existence as the existentialists see it ie, there is no predetermining force in the world. In effect, one is in bad faith if one shelters from the responsibility and anguish that being 'free' entails. A person is not only responsible for one's own conduct in life, but also to his fellow men.

Guilt and remorse are the shelter from this responsibility. The murder of Aggamemnon by Clytemnestra and Egisthe and their own spiritual parttaking in the crime are the objects of the town's remorse. This collective absorption into guilt and remorse shelters them from the need to accept responsibility for their own conduct. In effect, they are deluding themselves and irresponsible.

Religion and autocracy are other means by which they are able to do this. Jupiter is a parody of religion, reflecting Sartre's dismissal of predeterminism. The people are therefore enslaved by their attitude.

Orestes symbolises what is needed for them to break from their guilt and remorse, cross the diagram and live life to the full, facing up to one's responsibility and accepting the difficulties that come with it. He, in contrast with Electra, is therefore a positive exemplary apprentice. He succeeds in accepting the responsibility of murdering the King and Queen and thus escapes remorse and responsibility. In this way, he is an example to the people of Argos which equates with Sartre's concept that 'freedom' involves responsibility to others. It follows, therefore, that atheism and democracy are requirements encouraged in this didactic work.






















































<ICLE-BR-SUR-0013.1>
In "le Mythe de Sisyphe" Camus tries to explain what is meant by the absurd but in discussing suicide he advocates that life is still worth living despite the futility of it.

The absurd is the realisation that men are mortal and that hence, whatever they are doing is futile because death is always inevitable in the end. If this is the case then all actions are equal, as nothing really matters. <quote>.

Man is born free, according to Camus and he has the choice to be however he chooses and can change this way of living whenever he wishes. Camus was an athiest so he did not believe in any metaphysical power or fate which dictated how you should act. 

Man is always in search of knowledge & truth. He wants to be one with the world and understand it fully. This is not possible because, to understand something completely, you have to be fused with it, otherwise there will always have to be a leap of the mind. In scientific theory there is always a gap between experiments and their conclusion otherwise all theories would be the same. The only truth that we can be sure of is that we are mortal and will one day die. The awareness of the absurd may lead us to think that suicide would be a natural consequence of seeing the futility of life, but Camus doesn't believe that at all. He believes that as man is constantly in search of truth and that death is the only truth we can be sure of, then we must continue to live to persevere with this truth, <quote>.

Once man is aware of the absurd, he must live life to the full. It is a notion of hopelessness but not despair. As all actions are equal, as they lead to the same end, then a quantitive way of life seems logical as opposed to a qualititive way. Camus uses several examples to illustrate people pursuing this logic. He uses Don Joyein, a spanish lover who sleeps with as many women as possible, without paying any attention to how much he likes the individual women or whether he could be happy with one of them. He is not interested in the quality of the relationships, just in how much can be crammed into one life time, and is so seen to be living life to the full, whilst being aware of the absurd.

The absurd, being the only truth, is man's only link with the world and should be kept in view and should form the basis of decisions as to how to live, <quote>.

Although life is futile, people are still free to choose although the masses, as far as Camus is concerned, are unaware of this freedom. Even by not choosing something one is choosing not to do something which is still a choice.

The absurd can lead to anguish; anxiety nothing you do is necessary and the choice is yours whether to do it or not. Religion provides a sanctuary from this anxiety by making people believe that they are not free because they are governed by a metaphysical force, God, and are therefore subservient and not free. According to Camus religion provides false hope. People are hoping for a better life in the next world rather than trying to live life to the full in this one.

This does not mean that you can't have morals when you are aware of the absurd. You do not necessarily have to be a complete nihilist, but you must be aware that it is you that is making the choice of what action to take.

If you begin to see the futility of all the objects around you, as you snap out of consciousness, Camus believes you can have a feeling of nausea. If everything is stripped of its preconceived meaning that we have given it, it becomes meaningless and futile. If this line of thinking is continued then man will realise the superfluous nature of his own presence. All the objects around him would still exist, just wouldnot have a meaning. It is human beings who insist on categorising everything in order to explain it.

The actual "myth of Sisyphus" which is used in the writings to illustrate his point about the absurd, is quite simple but may help to explain further why Camus belieives that although life is futile, it is still worth living to the full. Sisyphe died and his wife through him out onto the street. The Gods decided that he could go back down to earth to punish his wife. Having doneso Sisyphe wanted to remain immortel. To punish him the Gods condemned him to roll a heavy rock up a hill only to find that when he reached the top the rock rolled back down. He was to do this eternally but he was still free to think and was happy in a way. He chose to treat the task as if it did matter and was important whilst still being aware of the absurd. So no matter how futile life is because of the only truth being that we all die, life should be led to the full.    

The essence of a person is only the sum of his actions and as a person is free to change the way he acts it has to be the sum of his actions when he dies, as that is where the choices end.

So although life is futile we must live it to the full according to Camus because, 
"The insurrection of man is a continuous revolt against death".

Camus was acutely aware of death because of having TB and this must have spurred him to explore life in this light, which at first glance is rather morbid but can be seen as very positive.



The themes of guilt and remorse in "Les Mouches" are made stronger by the paradox with religion, particularly catholic.

The first theme of guilt is that of the whole population of Argos. Their former ruler was killed by his wife, Clitamnestre, and her lover and the whole of Argos is forced to feel remorse because they did nothing to stop the murder and were actually quite keen on it because the king had stopped them from having public executions. This universal guilt is simmilar to the guilt of the people, in the catholic church particularly, because of the "original sin". Children are born into Argos and forced to feel remorse for something which happened before they were born. They must repent, as in the church. The population of Argos accept this and are unaware of their freedom in the "Satrian" sense. They have the freedom to make choices for example as to whether to repent or not. They do not see this freedom.

Electre becomes aware of her freedom for a while, when she disrupts the "fête des morts". Jupiter performs a small miracle, so the people of Argos do not take Electre's lead and refuse to repent.

Oreste comes back to Argos, having left as a baby, to discover that the place that should have been his was ruined and covered with flies, which had been sent by Jupiter. Oreste felt no guilt or remorse as he had grown up elsewhere but he felt he had to do something. Electre had been waiting for him to come and save her from servitude, as if waiting for the massiah to deliver her from evil. Oreste's first reaction was to save Electre but then he felt he needed to save the whole town from these awful dictators.

Oreste decided to kill Clitamnestre and her lover and so remove to guilty party, with a view to ruling the country himself. Electre agreed with him to start with but Jupiter won her over and after the murders she felt guilt and remorse. This guilt turned her face old and haggard like Clitamnestre's before her. Her guilt may have been genuin but the people were repenting so much and being so weighed down with remorse so that they were seen to be repenting by other people. If it wasn't for the existence of others there would be no guilt at all because there would be no-one to judge you. As Satre was athiest he would not believe in the final judgement.

Jupiter tries to trap Oreste into his web of remorse, like the last temptation of Christ. Jupiter is the god of Argos but also the God of death. He does not though bring people out of their graves to haunt people on the "fête des morts". All that is in the minds of the people themselves.

After the murders Oreste faces the people and proclaims that he will leave and take with him the flies, which were a symbol of their guilt brought by Jupiter.

Oreste left but he could not force the people of Argos to feel no remorse or guilt. He could only give them the freedom to change the way they lived, but they had to recognise that freedom and make use of it. This is simmilar to Christ giving up his life so that man could be free but not telling them what to do with this freedom.

   

Louis shows a mistrust in Hugo which is common for a working class leader to feel about a petit bourgeois intellectual. He sees men as too self-interested and egotistical. They are often anarchists and want to be integrated with the party and performe assassinations. This is a job that they are not trained for and they would be more useful doing other jobs for the cause.

Hugo shows many of these attributes but as we shall see was not perhaps the anarchist Louis accused him of being. He was from a bourgeois backrounce and desperately wanted to be rid of it, apart from still having a wife whom he married whilst still in that class, and some photographs from his childhood. He wanted to be really integrated into the party, whereas at the time he still felt cut off and classed as an intellectual bourgeois because he wrote the paper. If he had only got the party's interests at heart then he would have persevered with the job he was useful for. Instead of which he wanted to assassinate someone; a job which he was not trained in. His reasons for wanting to do this at first appear political, but we then realise that he wanted to do it to earn the respect and love of Louis and Olga. In other words he had purely selfish reasons for insisting on having this particular job.

As time passes Louis is proved right in that Hugo is no use to the party as he has not killed Hoederer. He had been putting it off because he actually liked Hoederer although did not agree with his political means of starting a revolution.

Hugo seemed to be more idealistic than anarchistic. He was rather immature and desperate to belong. He had a great feeling of loneliness as many intellectuals did. They only hated the working class they were fighting for slightly less than the bourgeois people they came from.

Hugo did eventually kill Hoederer proving his worth to the party by carrying out his orders but he was not sure why he did it. He walked in on Hoederer and Jessica (Hugo's wife) whilst they were in an embrase and this scene prompted him to shoot Hoederer. At the end of the play Olga is talking to Hugo trying to decide whether he is "recuperable" by dicifering whether Hugo killed Hoederer out of jealously or for political reasons. The problem was that the original reason for Hoederers assassination was because he wanted join up with the other parties in order to gain power and then work from there. This was not acceptable to Louis and the others at the time. However orders from Moscow changed and so Hoederer's policies were adopted after his assassination. The party needed Hugo to deny that it was a political assassination as this would embarass the party. If he died over a woman he would be a hero.
 
As Hugo realises what the party wants him to do he shows signs of being anarchistic as he refuses to comply with them. He is not sure why he killed Hoederer. It was unlikely to be jealousy because Jessica and Hugo no longer loved each other. But is wasn't really political becausse Hugo had gone to the study to accept Hoederer's help in becoming a man, which had been offered to him, <quote>

Hugo saw how pointless Hoederers death had been but also how trivial it would be if he was said to have been killed through jealousy. He believed that a man like Hoederer would die for his politics & not because of a woman.

Louis wants Hugo killed but has given Olga until midnight to ascertain whether or not he is récupérable. She believes he is but he commits a quasi-suicide by working out of the door where he knows he will be shot. This suicide was not for the good of the party but for himself and for Hoederer. 

Although we can see that Hugo towards the end of the play becomes more of an anarchist, I think Louis does not give him a chance because he is a bourgeois intellectual. Hugo does show extreme loyalty the party and their policies fully. He is very idealistic but still held firmly to the party's politics even when he could see the logic of Hoederers arguments and is almost won over to his points of view. Hugo still says Hoederer should be shot because he can persuade him round to his way of thinking, then he must be stopped from persuading others.

By the end of the play Hugo was totally disillusioned with the party because of its ability to have a policy strong enough to kill for but plausible enough to be changed over night. It is difficult to say whether his final act was one of anarchy or despair. He was, however, egotistical in the way he wanted to serve the party. Although he believed whole-heartedly in the party he actually wanted to act in order to be accepted by the others. So Louis was right to mistrust him but not necessarily for being an anarchist.

  

























<ICLE-BR-SUR-0014.1>

This play takes place in Central Europe in a place called Illyria is the setting for political confusion in the weake of the future threat of the Red Army which will soon be marching in to occupy the country. In this light, there are several different political forces each trying to pursue its ideology to the full. The play does however centralise around the theme of the proleteriats battle against the bourgoisie and infact its entire internal structure is concerned with this. The  two factions of the proleteriat group which feature are that of Hoederers which is the slightly more liberal group, and that of Louis the PAC (on the left, in other words, the strict communists).

Sartre writes this play with the basic theme of socialism running through all the scenes. That is to say he intends to illustrate their struggle to gain power. It is true to say that at no stage does Sartre actually criticise this socialism openly and that owing to the internal structure one may be led to believe that the play is openly supporting the cause; however, this I do not feel is the case. Indeed, I would agree that the play is profoundly ambiguous in its political aspect.

This ambiguity arises from various different sources. If one starts by examing Louis it is clear that he is portrayed in a negative way and cannot put trust in others to carry out his political ideals. He replies to Hugo when asked if he feels that he feels Hugo capable of carrying out the deed
<quote>. This negative aspect is also seen in the planning of the murder of the leader, Hoederer. The ambiguity from the eventual murder arises from several points. Firstly, this murder will later be refuted as the PAC will change its policies and realise the seriousness of its political blunder vis-à-vis this murder (Hoederer's idea of aligning with the Pentagon and Karsky was indeed a sensible flexible response to the position of the socialist party at the time).The question arises whether Sartre is criticising the Socialists for the hasty and naieve behaviour and whether he feels that this is the type of nochalant behaviour expected from the Party. Secondly, due to the confessions which Hugo makes at the end of the play, revealing that he cannot determine whether the murder was out of desperation, jealousy or for the party, we are forced to ask whether this was purely and act on the part of Hugo in trying to validate himself, to give himself weight and to re define his project in life. (he can start to be free if he can abandon his past and realise the truth of the absurdity to life). It seems, likely that, despite the fact that Hugo would desire the justification of being able to do this for the party as a direct proof of his self-believed loyalty, that this murder was nothing more than the continual struggle to give his life meaning. 

Ambiguity is also derived from the treatment of Hugo as an intellectual. Is this a direct attack of the French Communist Party's treatment of intellectuals which align with their ideas? Hoederer is, perhaps, the character who confirms this most explicity when he says <quote> and he then pursues this argument by saying that in opposition to Hugo he likes people, despite all their miserable attributes, and wants to help them. Hugo replies why should he like people when, after all, <quote>. Thus, ambiguity arises over the position of an intellectual in a political grouping of this kind. 

The ethical side of the play is, in my opinion, linked closely to the idea of dying for and killing for the cause. On the one hand, the dying and killing are seen as heroic and on the other, due to the ambiguous and perhaps meaningless death of Hugo (in other words it adopts no meaning because he will be regarded as a traitor to the cause as a consequence of the fact that Hoederers plan has been adopted) it has to be considered that  part of Sartre's basic theory was, that through knowing you are free and defining your project you should also consider others, and not deny moral ethics, in other words, live as best as you can in the knowledge that life is absurd (être-pour-soi can only exist in the presence of être pour d'autrui).

Olga says <quote>. She is prepared to go to any lengths, even as she reveals, to kill Hugo if it is necessary. She, thus, does not work in the recognition of any moral values, infact the values she adopts are directly defined by the party line itself The reason. I feel this to be ambiguous is that Olga herself is seen to be a character whose loyalty lies with no human body, simply with 'ideals'. Although, there is no direct attack on her, her action towards Hugo, when she tries to kill him in Hoederers office, reveals a dubious meaning of her action.

Finally, there is ethical ambiguity towards Hugos reason for being with the party in the first place. Throughout the play references slowly make it clear that Hugo has not made a clear break with the past, firstly due to bringing Jessica with him, then the fact he still has photos of himself and finally, and most importantly he has a hatred for his childhood and background. The question and ambiguity appears to be derived from the two-fold possibility for joining the party: was it a moral and ethical decision to fight against all that he felt was immoral and corrupt in his class structured society, or was it simply a desire to rid himself of tormenting memories and to try gain "weight" to give himself a new importance and substance. This is a theme which remains ambiguous even after his death because despite, saying he would deny that the murder was a mistake and claim that he did it for political reasons, it will never be recognised as such as he is not given the opportunity to publicise his.




<quote>. Camus tells us in Le Mythe de Sisyphe that such is the case: in the light of the absurdity of life we only face one problem which needs to fully understood and that is suicide. To inmediately relate this to Caligula, Caligula did not commit suicide in the light of absurdity, in fact he became determined to show his people the meaningless and futility of their lives through his new found liberty.

Caligula's sister Druscilla has recently died and Caligula disappears directly after her death. On his return, he has changed. The change which has taken place is one which serves as a basis for our sympathy for his acts and even possible admiration. 

Caligula has discovered that his life is absurd, and is coming to terms with what his actions have to be in the light of this revelation (we are all destined to die). Through the course of the play Caligula indulges in a series of crime in attempting to try to show his citizens that life is unhappy and futile and yet in death we can be happy and inmortal, (absurdity arises from the fact we have no purpose as defined by anyone, if we reject God, and are therefore merely meaningless objects).

In the possession of the knowledge of the truth of life Caligula feels that he has the right to power over everything as the sole person who can show others that their lives are a sham. He thus orders executions, the taking of money and even a famine, after all, <quote>. In this he is clearly logical, he has an exclusive knowledge to the absurdity of  life and has therefore, taken it upon himself to be responsable for enlightening others.

Caligula thus, takes up revolt against the idea of being imprisonned by the absurdity of life by trying to reverse what is the impossible. In doing this he believes that the whole universe could be changed, if one person could achieve one impossible feat then the world would be able to be free from the limitations of meaningless derived from liberty. He continually persists with his pursuit of the moon not resting, and perhaps here we are drawn to admire Caligula for his clarity (lucidity) of purpose and will despite the rediculous nature of the task ahead of him.

Caligula also attempts to help the people by becoming their destiny: our one and only truth is that our destiny is death. Caligula's logic is that he will spare his people the intermediary nothingness and be their teacher of destiny. He maintains that <quote> and that he would give up his if it were necessary. So he perceives himself as having a didactic purpose and will play this part <quote>. Thus we admire his determination and maintenance in the action for his belief.

Camus does, therefore, build up an impression of logical procedure for Caligula, using even such words as "clair voyance" suggesting that this is not unrational action but a revolt against absurdity. However, revolt, as described in other works is not entirely action against revolt, but rather indifference to it. 

We also begin to feel an increasing sense of sympathy with Caligula towards the end of the play when after strangling Caesonia, Caligula says <quote>. A duplicity has arisen in his ideal; yes he should revolt against the absurdity of his situation but should it be through the violent methods which has been using. It appears as though Camus, whilst not creating Caligula as a positive exemplary figure, was trying to show him as repent for his ill-judged and hasty actions. In other words, through the late realization of his guilt versus his peoples innocence, a	 certain sympathy is evoked for his misunderstanding of the way in which one should live alongside the concept of the absurd. That is not to say that we see his actions as justified but that we do perceive a misinterpretation of the truth in life. This fact is reinforced by the fact that Cherea's idealistic proposal for the hierarchical nature which she sees as the way to hapinness and freedom, is portrayed in a cynical way by Camus.

To summarise then, our feelings of sympathy and possible admiration for Calligula are evoked by the way in which Camus develops Caligula's argument and reasoning as logical and correct within the limitations of his initial misunderstanding of the concept of absurdity: and subsequently how he begins to portary Caligulas repentence in the light of the  Emperors late realisation that he is wrong and has been immoral.




In order to establish an interpretation of the difference in the handling of these two characters in their respective plays, it is necessary to develop some ideas of their basic features and the way in which they are portrayed in the course of the plot.

Orestre is seen as a positive exemplary figure who achieves the ultimate goal of discovering his own freedom and offering freedom to the people of Argos: he is therefore the existentialist hero. Hugo, on the contrary, is a negative exemplary character, who not only fails in his own struggle for freedom but fails to provide any kind of progression for the party aswell.

Sartre portrays Orestre originally as <quote>, who essentially has no profound ideas and who therefore, has a clean slate, in the sense that he can make his way forward to discover the truth about life through his experiences in Argos.

Hugo however, has character traits which have been tinged by a certain idealistic view of the world, which developed as the result of his childhood. Sartre therefore, does not provide Hugo with a clean slate on which he build his new ideas, but rather he already has a certain amount of mauvais foi, in the
sense that he is deluding himself about reality. Orestre, on the other hand, has a type of innocent bad faith in the early stage of the play.

On arrival in the city Orestre even has to <quote>, which illustrates the state of having nothing which is important for his later revelations. Hugo, however, has been working on the paper for some time and has acquired a desire to be tested. He is, therefore, interested in proving himself so as to assure his allegiance to the cause. In the light of this, it is perhaps easier for Sartre to develop a sense of être pour d'autrui for Orestre, as once he has discovered être-pour soi, which he does in the course of his murder of Egisthe and Clytemnestre and the ensuing realisation of liberty, he can take his part in the responsability for others. Hugo, however is portrayed in such a way that he is unlikely to find or achieve his own liberty and cannot, therefore help to provide the realization of liberty for the others. 

Orestre is given a sense of respect in Les Mouches, and this is perhaps shown by the parody drawn in many cases with the religious theme. It is possible to see Orestre as the "Parodic Messiah", as he provides the people with an opportunity to break away from the eternal repetence they have forced upon themselves since Egisthe murdered Agemenon. Thus, despite the fact that exitentialists do not believe in God, by assimulating his character to the Messiah he is, perhaps, trying to make him more accessible (although of course, this is a satirical view  on religion). 

Hugo is also an accessible character but in a different manner. He has an unusual background and, we would probably as Westerners feel sympathy for his naieve attempt to change the order of society and be able to identify with this sort of failure of in the struggle which preceeds the realization of liberty.

Thus, Sartre treats Hugo and Orestre differently because of the way he needs to manipulate, in the case of Hugo, and form, in the the case of Orestre, their characters and opposing meanings of their characters later in the play.

The two works imply a development in Sartres theoretical viewpoint in the way he leaps from a hero to an abject failure. The potentials of each individual are great, but, it is not easy to shake off preconceived systems of values in order to achieve the realisation of liberty, the meaning of this and the anxiety and despair which must accompany this transition or change.

In les Mouches, the theory of "être pour autrui" is heavily emphasised in the way that Orestre's own achievement becomes something of an achievement on the behalf of the public of Argos. Orestre says <quote>. In Les Mains Sales, however, Sartre has developed the idea that realization liberty is not always possible for those too strongly submerged in self dillusion. Without an awareness of your liberty and freedom to act, you cannot acknowledge the absurdity of life and therefore, act accordingly. Les Mains Sales acutely underlines this fact through Hugo. 

Finally, Sartre illustrates that anxiety can be a result of a non-existentialist existence too. He shows Hugo as a man who has  lost interest in living <quote> and who is anxious to commit a 'deed'. Thus, without being an existentialist yourself, features of the existentialist character are possible.




<ICLE-BR-SUR-0015.1>
Oreste enters Argos with no knowledge of the town or its people, he knows he was born there and feels annoyed that he has to ask his way <quote>. Oreste typifies the existentialist view that <quote>, Oreste is like a clean slate, he has no past which determines him and as yet his project has not been defined. Throughout the play Oreste develops a project, he moves from passivity to action, from ignorance to knowledge, he becomes aware of what it means to be free and this freedom leads him to realise that it is not material belonging which creates essense, but the sum of his actions, he therefore decides to leave Argos. Let us now discuss the experiences which were significant on Oreste's development.

When Oreste enters Argos he is practicing an innocent type of <quote>, he believes in the justness of Gods and he feels the only way he can define himself as a person is by belonging to Argos and being one of its citizens. He has a false idea of freedom, he thinks it means being unconstrained and uninhibited by physical things, freedom is a joyous feeling for Oreste, he likes being free to do what he wants and go where he wants. However through his experiences Oreste realises the solitary nature of freedom and the despair and anguish it entails.

Oreste hears of the <quote> and is disgusted, he sees Electre disrupt the ceremony by appearing in a white robe and dancing, in doing so Electre helps Oreste define himself and his project, her disruption makes him question whether or not he should stay and free the people from their guilt. Oreste's decision to stay after Jupiter has performed his little miracle is a turning point for Oreste, he takes a positive decision to stay and act. Oreste rejected the miracle, as Sartre says meaning does not really exist, it is man who gives things meaning, in choosing to stay and not take a particular meaning from the miracle Oreste exercises his freedom of choice. This choice is the first act which will add to others to create his essence.

Oreste decides to murder Clytemnestre and Egisthe in order to remove the guilt from the people of Argos. The murder is not something he has to do but something he chooses to do, Sartre has turned the Greek myth on its head to show that there is no such thing as fate or predestinatin, we are the sole authors of our actions. By killing Clytemnestre + Egisthe, Oreste wants to say to the people of Argos, this is my crime, not yours.

When Oreste decides to commit the murders Jupiter hurries to tell Egisthe to protect himself. Egisthe has had enough of life and nolonger wants to go on. he asks Jupiter why he cannot do something to prevent Oreste. Jupiter tells Egisthe that <quote>. Oreste has realised that he is free, he is conscious of his freedom, he therefore rejects God which keeps man in servitude and remorse. By saying that God is powerless over men who choose to reject his existence, is saying that God doesn't exist, because if God is all powerful he could do something to prevent their freedom, if he isn't all powerful then he isn't God. Oreste is becoming an authentic person, he is rejecting the bad faith of taking comfort in guilt and God. He realises he is responsible for his own actions and is therefore free.

After the murder El. calls Oreste, Oreste for the first time instead of Philèbe, he is now a real person, project + essence, when Electre has forsaken him and asked Jupiter to forgive her, Oreste realises what it really entails to be free. Freedom is a burden, it involves anxiety, despair and abandonment. Jupiter realises this he tries to tell Oreste that he could take the easy way out by rejecting his freedom and living in servitude, by living under the power of Jupiter he wouldn't have to carry the burden of his guilt alone, nor would he have to take painful decisions by living without restrictions and moral rules. Electre accepts what Jupiter is saying and practices extreme bad faith. She needs something to give her comfort and security. Oreste on the other hand rejects it and reinforces his freedom. Oreste is aware that the knowledge that he is free will mean that he will have to take his decisions alone and in anguish and he recognises the despair which comes from knowing that so long as he is free he will allways have to decide alone, he can't count on anyone as they are all free to chose and change their minds. Jupter abandons Oreste as he knows he nolonger has power over him, but more importantly Oreste abandons Jupiter as he knows he is free, he accepts his guilt but he knows that he owns that guilt, he chose to take it on himself.

Oreste hopes that he has freed the people of Argos by setting and example. Sartre says that we are responsible for other people as our actions are example to them, what we do and how we act is an example of how we think others should act. By accepting his own guilt but by rejecting Jupiter and collective guilt Oreste shows his freedom, he hopes his example will lead the people of Argos to see that they are free because they have a consciousness which allows them to choose and forms the basis of their freedom. Consciousness is separated from our bodies by nothingness, it can reflect on the past which means that we are not wholly determined by our past, the people of Argos have to realise that Egisthes + Clytemnestre murder of Agamemnon is not their murder and that they can't be determined by the past, their consciousness gives them freedom of choice and allows them to choose a new way of life.

Oreste does not stay in Argos as he realises he is free and becomes an authentic person. To stay in Argos and try to belong would have been an act of bad faith, as it is Oreste's actions which have defined him and made his project. He is now conscious of his freedom and realises his essence will be the sum of his acts when he dies.



"La Chute" is a complex novel in which Camus tells of one man's realisation of the absurd and his reaction to it. Through out the novel the themes of guilt and judgement occur frequently, we are told of Clamence's own guilt, the guilt of mankind and universal guilt, we are also told of Clamence's new progression as a "juge-pénitent" and what this entails.

Clamence is a lawyer who once practised in Paris, a suitable progression for someone so obsessed by guilt and judgement. Clamence is now practising from a seedy bar, the Mexico-City, in the Amsterdam docklands, however he now practices as a "juge-pénitent". Throughout the novel Clamence confesses his life to a silent listener who we never hear speak.

The novel begins by Clamence meeting the stranger who is of Bourgeois stock, the first thing Clamence admits to being guilty of is a taste for fine language and the complicated use of tenses. this arises from his former days as a lawyer in Paris. Clamence then goes on to tell his listener the story of his past life and how it came to be shattered one evening when he heard a laugh on the Pont Des Arts.

Clamence had been a very good lawyer in Paris, he had been popular, wealthy, satisfied and happy. Everyone had liked him and he felt unity and purpose in life. He was "un homme simple", neither confused nor distressed. However all this changes one evening when he is crossing a bridge at night and he hears a laugh, it wasn't a mocking laugh, but it suddenly made him aware that his life was not what he thought it was. He became aware of the absurdity of life which as Camus says can occur at any time, it causes man to think about the futility of life, what is the point of living when we are going to die anyway. The laugh causes Clarence to reflect on his past and it is during this assessment that he realises that throughout his past life he has been guilty of many things especially duplicity.

Clamence realised that he had been living a double life, each of his actions had an ulterior motive. When he was being generous it was to make him feel good about himself, people thought he was a very magnanimous person as he always forgave them, the truth however was that he had an astonishing power of forgetfulness, whenever he greeted people warmly it wasn't because he forgave them, but because he couldn't even remember their name, never mind the wrong they had done him. After the laugh Clamence looked in the mirror and it seemed that his smile was double, he admitted to himself that he was a master of trickery and duplicity. Nothing in his life had really been simple, he had just deluded himself into thinking so.

Upon reflection Clamence realised his greatest crime which gave rise to his guilt. One evening when he had been crossing the Pont Royal he saw a young girl. he walked on further and then heard a splash and a young girl screaming. Clamence had stopped but then decided to continue on his way home, he was guilty of letting the girl drown and it is this which weighs most heavily on his mind.

After the laugh when Clamence realises his guilt he begins to think that everyone is laughing at him and judging him. He nolonger trusts his friends, he thinks they have all grouped together and our judging him, <quote>. Clamence believes that it is inherent in human nature to judge, <quote>. We all judge eachother and punish eachother, after all it was man who invented <quote>.
 
It is because of this realisation that we are always judging eachother that Clamence accepts absolute guilt. By accepting guilt and becoming a "juge-pénitent" Clamence holds himself up as an example of universel guilt and therefore cannot be judged. Clamence betrays his fellowmen by saying that we are all guilty and if he is an example of our guilt then we cannot judge him. 

Throughout the novel Clamence makes references to mankind's guilt, <quote>. He says that the modern man is guilty, he believes that even the pimps in Amsterdam are better than the modern man as they do not hide what they are doing, they don't practice duplicity.

It is interesting that the play is set in Amsterdam as this is a crossroads for all types of nationalities, it is a microcosm of universel guilt. During the war Amsterdam had been the sight of one of the greatest crimes in history when it sent 75000 Jews to the extermination camps in Germany. <quote>. Clamence believes everyone is guilty, even Jesus, as if it hadn't been for him Herod wouldn't have carried out the "massacre des Innocents".

At the end of the novel we see how Clamence has been guilty throughout of practicing duplicity. Until the end of the novel we believed his discourse to be spontaneous and ad lib, however this is not the case. Clamence's speech is a product of his role as "juge-penitent", it is well rehearsed and is used on many unsuspecting visitors to the Mexico-City bar. Clamence hopes that through confessing everything he will put his listener in such a physchological position as to make him confess everything as well, which prevents the listener from judging Clamence, but allows Clamence to judge him which is why he is a "juge-pénitent". Throughout the novel Clamence begins with "je" then moves to "nous" when speaking of guilt finally at the end he says "vous", showing that nolonger includes himself but is judging the listener as well as us the leader, it is an attempt also to make the reader confess.

Throughout the novel we can see the importance of the theme of guilt which is what has led Clamence to recognise the absurd, however once recognising the absurdity of life instead of revolting and accepting the absurdity but living as if life has meaning, Clamence turns the revolt on its head and decides to live in the malconfort of his guilt by judging other and making them confess.



Louis is the leader of the revolutionary party to which Hugo belongs, Louis dislikes Hugo but it is unclear as to whether this dislike is a result of Hugo's bourgeois background or Hugo's actions. In a way it is true that Hugo is nothing more than an anarchist, he is rebelling against his childhood through the party, he doesn't care about human life, he believes that if people must die to further the cause of the party then so be it. However I would not say that this is entirely true and so in some ways I would say that he is of use to the party.

Hugo as we have said came from a Bourgeois familly, he was an only child but was physchologically neglected by his father and mother. He hates his family and is ashamed of his background, in a way his entry into the party is a rebellion against his childhood, through his position in the party he wants to give reason to his life and a type of weight, he wants to become "heavy". However Hugo acts in bad faith as even though he rejects everything to do with his Bourgeois background, he married Jessica who also came from a Bourgeois family, and he also keeps photographs of himself of when he was a child. Hugo takes confort in these things, however they also frighten his as he is afraid he will return to that way of life, he doesn't realise that since our consciousness is separated from our minds we are not determined by our past.

Hugo's position in the party and Louis' reaction to him is typical of the intellectual's position in left wing political groups. Hugo is distrusted because of his background, there is a fear that if he could turn his back on his family and background then he could just as easily turn his back on the party. The intellectual is ressented by many, as shown by Slick and George's reaction to Hugo. Slick and George resent the fact that Hugo is in the party because of ideological beliefs and ideas, they are members of the party so they can fight for their basic human rights such as having enough food to eat. However intellectuals are tolerated as if they are prestigious then then can have influence on others and educate society, also they can be used to spread propaganda and political ideas.

Hugo says that he believes in the party and understands the need to follow strict discipline. However this is ironical as he then demands to be given something concrete to do, he wants more action. The fact that he doesn't carry out the assassinatin is further evidence to Louis that Hugo cannot follow discipline.

The party only wants what is good for itself, it is not interested in others. Hugo has too many hang ups about himself and he always acts in his own interests and not really for the good of the party. Hugo's entry into the party is to enable him to rebel against his youth and get some meaning from life, his request to carry out the assassin is also for personal reasons, he wants to prove himself to Olga and Louis, and also make himself "lourd". Hugo has no clearly defined project, he is drifting, he has to make a conscious choice which will motivate him to action and define his project.

Hugo has been sent to kill Hoederer because Louis believes that Hoederer is betraying the party and it's cause. Hoederer wants to join with the Regent and the fascists in a coalition against the Germans in order to further the party's position after the war. However Louis describes his as <quote>. Louis makes it out to Hugo to be a matter of ideology, instead of just a matter of means.

When Hugo is stationed as Hoederers secretary, he finds it increasingly difficult to assassinate Hoederer, not at an ideological level but at a human level. Hoederer realises this and points out another flaw in the make-up of intellectuals, they cannot do anything without first thinking about it and reflecting on the act and its consequences.

Hoederer and Hugo get into a row over Hoederers plan to join with the Regent. Hugo believes very strongly in his beliefs + ideologies and is adament that the position of the party should not be compromised for anything, Hoederer on the other hand belongs to the school of opportunists and so he believes the ends justify the means what ever the means. This is also true of Louis however Hugo has been led to think that Louis disagrees about the ideology of the deal, it is really just a question of means between Louis + Hoederer. Hugo holds fast to his belief that the party position cannot be compromised and in todays western society that is theoretically admirable, but practically stupid Hoederer is machiavellian in nature and shows integrity, he believes that the alliance will not stop the goal of the party being achieved but it will save about 100 000 lives on the way. Hugo says that it doesn't matter if people die on the way: can't be helped. Hoederer questions why Hugo is in the party if he isn't concerned with human life, the whole purpose of the party is to overthrow the existing social system in order to improve the lot of others. This seems to suggest that Hugo is in the party for himself, not out of concern for those less fortunate than himself.

Hugo -red gloves - nothing wrong with murde. Hoederer accuses all intellectuals of just wanting to be murders - give them some weight. 
Hoederer - dirty words - question of means + ends. Hugo sticks tight to his puritanical ideas - good for the party in theory - should be more flexible.

Hugo does try - he does try and become + authentic person - the murder could have been the opportunity he needed to define his project and become "lourd". However unsure of his motives and therefore loses opportunity.

I would have to agree with Louis that Hugo not much use to the party, but I wouldn't agree that he is an anarchist through + through. If only he had been able to take up Hoederer's offer of help, he might have matured and been of more use, finally got rid of his hangups + expiated his guilt, and then be able to act for the good of others.







<ICLE-BR-SUR-0016.1>
Before we can discuss the situation of French education today and in the recent past we should look at its history as this helps to explain the elitisme in the system.

We need to go back to the late 18th century when Napoleon put forward his views on education. He believed that people should be educated in order for the state to run smoothly. ie: he did not really believe in the right of people to be educated just in the need of the state for people to be educated. As most of the population were involved in agriculture at that time, there was only need for a very basic primary education for the majority of people. This he left mainly up to the church as he believed the church would promote social cooperation. Secondary and Higher education were more important as the would train the professionals which the country needed, and this section of education was therefore run by the state. At this stage we can already see the opportunity for a gap between primary & secondary education which remained in fact until relatively recently, despite attempts at reforms which I will go into later. This system of education did not lead to much social mobility as the children from poorer social backrounds left school after primary, "ecole primaire", with a very basic education, whereas the children from richer backgrounds could go on to secondary and higher education. These "bourgeois" children would then go on to Lycée and either to University or "Les Grandes Ecoles" so joining the class of the élite. This elitism has survived to a certain degree up to today. 

The gap between primary and secondary education became a major concern for the later governments. Under the second and third republics not much advance was made on the education question as this did not appear to be a priority.

Under the forth republic reforms were proposed but because of the multi-party governments who had to face internal struggles all the time, they failed in most cases to be passed.

The main proposal for reform put forward by Jean Zay & later the Languin-Wallon plan which formed the basis for the eventual reforms, concerned what was called "orientation". This was an attempt to bring primary and secondary edcuatin together. It should be said here that earlier attempts at increasing the role of primary and secondary education and making it open to all frightened the bourgeoisie who then sent their children to schools linked to the Lycées so that they still had an advantage. Longuin-Wallon plan proposed an orientation period from the age of 11 to 15 which would be compulsory for all children and would provide a more coherent link between primary and secondary education. Two years of this orientation would be a set syllabus for all pupils of all abilities giving everyone an equal chance. After these two years the pupils would choose options according their interests and their abilities. This system was the basis for the CES (collège d'enseignement secondaires) These proposals were thwarted twice by the two world wars but are now in operation.

I will now explain how the system works today, how it compares to England and why, despite attempts by the government, the system is still prone to elitism. We have already seen how the CES works so now we can discuss what happens next. Pupils can either stay on in secondary education ie CES until they are 16 and then leave school or they can go to a Lycée where they will take the bacalauréat in either Science or Arts. The third option, which was not always available, is the Lycée technique where the courses are more vocational. You study for 1, 2 or 3 years at the Lycée technique. After the first year you receive a PEP - prévé d'études professionelles. After two years you receive a CEP - certificat d'enseignements professionelles and after 3 years a CAP - certificat d'aptitude professionelles. Most of the pupils leaving the Lycée technique will go to work, although they can take other exams if they wish to go on to higher education. It is rather like a technical college in England. Lycée is more like a sixth form college although the bacalauréat is not the same as A levels, as you study more subjects for one exam. After attaining the bacalauréat you can go to university. There is relatively little selection in French universities, especially when you compare it with the British system of required grades and interviews. This may appear to evade elitism but unfortunately it does not as children from lower classes will be guided towards more practical subjects in the orientation period and so the Lycée technique because their parents would be able to afford to put them through university. A system of grants for the first two years was proposed to try and avoid this.

So by the time the student reaches university, there is already a marked case of elitism. There is one more extreme case of elitism however and that is the Grandes Ecoles. To get into one of these highly prestigious colleges you have to take another exam as well as having the bac, rather like oxford and Cambridge. They are highly selective and elitist. The three main schools are Ecole Polytechnique, Ecole Normale superieure and Ecole National d'Administration. From these schools people go on to occupy the highest paid jobs in the private and public sector. As an example of their power and prestige we can look at Giscard D'Estaign first cabinet. Out 16 members 7 were from the Grandes Ecoles.

For a general comparison between the French & English systems we can start with the primary schools. In short the French is moving towards the old English system of teaching a wider range of subjects and giving teachers more autonomy to decide on what and how to teach whereas England is reverting to the French method of a cour-curricula set out by a centralized body.

There is always going to be a problem with university being associated with elitism because of the fact that poorer families would rather see their children going out to work than being a drain on their resorces, even though the selection process in itself is not classist. The Grandes Ecoles are exceptional cases, and as with Oxford and Cambridge, you will find that most of its entrants are upper class, public school boys who will come out and work in the highest jobs - wages wise and prestige wise - and perpetuate the cycle by sending their children to the best schools money can buy.

 











 

























<ICLE-BR-SUR-0017.1>

Studies in demography have shown that the growth of a nation is closely linked to its economic development, social structure, and also cultural trends. On studying France throughout the twentieth century we can see that this is indeed true.

If we start at the beginning of the century we see that the growth of the population was inhibited greatly by the first world war, where France suffered many losses. The fact that the men in the society left to fight meant that the number of births was reduced greatly. This was also the case on the return of the men, when many did not come back having been killed. Therefore after the first world war the population of France decreased greatly.

Immigration was already present at this time, and helped to make up for the large number of losses in the war. Slowly the population began to build itself up again until the beginning of the Second World War. In this war France did not suffer as many casualties and deaths as in the first world war, but the fact that there had already been losses made the situation grave for France. The economy needed rebuilding, as did the whole country, and the work force was very depleated. There was an urgent call for immigrant workers to come to France, and indeed they did come (about 4 million).

When the troops came home, and families were reunited there was a great increase in births. The previous Malthusian attitude that less children meant a better life and greater security was replaced by a new attitude that in order to create and rebuild France a strong workforce was needed. Having a child was regarded as an 'investment in the future'. The french realised that a defeat was due to the fact that they were not a strong nation, and they wanted to build such a nation.

The gouvernement also adopted various policies to try and increase births in the society. It was suggested in the 1920s that contraception should be made illegal, but in the end this was restricted. Family allowances were increased, and medical costs were paid for in order to try and encourage births. Also leave from work was increased.

The main incentive was however that the economy was improving all the time, there was full employment which generated security and therefore created the right sort of environment to favour birth. There was therefore a baby boom in the after war period, during "les trente glorieuses".

This lasted until the 1970s when a slight decrease in births was recorded. It was decided that this decrease was due to changes in attitudes in society.

Firstly, education possibilities had been improved, and therefore more people stayed in further education which delayed marriages which had become rarer. Women also tended more to want to be educated, and to continue in further education, as more opportunities became available for them on the job market as industries boomed and office jobs were in their plenty. As more women began to work births dropped as work was not compatible with a family, although more facilities for looking after children were created such as crèches. Women even if they did not particularly want a career still tended to stay in education as it was regarded as giving them a cultural background considered necessary in french society.

As the economy developed society became a consumer society, and couples began to favour having material things rather than say a second child. Couples preferred having a car, or annual holidays to a child, and thus the birth rate decreased.

Also attitudes of young people helped to decrease the birth rate, as more co-habitation was seen, and fewer marriages. With the reintroduction of contraception readily available and also the IVG programme in 1974 this helped to decrease the number in births.

At the moment the french population is not even actually renewing itself, as each family needs to have 2 children which it is not having. If it had not been for immigration, the population would have been around 36 million instead of the 56 million it is today.

With the decrease in births, there is therefore an increase in the number of old people in french society as medecine and healthy eating provides a longer life expectancy. This is quite a problem in France as the older generation cost a great deal of money to support, and the fact that their support is seen as a past debt rather than a future investment in the case of children, makes such support be given rather begrudgingly.

There have been further recent attempts to try and encourage the birth of children, such as leave being increased to six months, and cash payments being made for third children, other payments being greatly increased also. This however does not seem to have won over the current materialism of the society of today.

If the graph below is studied than we can see that demography is definitely related to the economic, cultural and social trends of a country.

<graph>

The current situation of the population today is that there are more old people in society than young, and that when the children born during the baby boom reach old age, there will be more old people than young, which may lead to an "immobilisme" of society where there are no new ideas and fresh blood.

Recent studies show however that marriage is now being favoured again, and not being delayed as it was earlier, although there are no signs that materialism is decreasing, and with the current economic situation, where there is great job instability and high unemployment there is not, today, a very favourable environment to encourage birth, even though all possible is being done to encourage it as regards allowances, lodging, job security, and child-minding. France is again in difficulty, and it remains to be seen when it will be able to remedy the situation, as mainly the economic situation is the problem - a secure environment is needed in order for births to be favoured.





<ICLE-BR-SUR-0018.1>
The roots of the problems in higher education lie with Napoleon's policy on education which was to educate a well-trained small elite to run the country, while guaranteeing that the country remained stable by ensuring that the majority of the population was not over-educated. Although any French citizen with the baccaleauréat is entitled through the constitution to a university education, the system is still characterised by major inequalities.

The system of non-selection for all univerisity courses (with a few exceptions such as dentistry and medecine had led to the impoverishment of the quality of instruction and the status of the universities. Trying to appear to be democratic, the system allows any bachelier to enter the first year of a university course. However, the drop out rate is incredibly high, about 57%, so many waste a year and undergo a great deal of stress, both emotional and financial in this manner. Before the Evènements of 1968, many argued that the universities were overcrowded, dirty, and ruled to closely from Paris. After 1968, Edgar Faure tried to allow for more autonomy and less direct rule from Paris. Although the Ministry was still to be responsible for Building costs, the universities were to be allowed to divide into Unités d'Enseignement et de Recherche (UER) and given more freedom in chosing accademic staff. However, universities were often divided into new universities according to the political leanings of its professors, and have been held back by political squabbles. The university graduate does not enjoy the same prestigue as his European counterparts. The Universities have little contact with the outside business world and the divided nature of the UERs allows little scope for cross fertilization of disciplines. A licence, does not automatically guarantee a good job, and a "jeune diplomé" could quite easily find himself working in a supermarket check-out. Many students, therefore wonder if it is worth the strain of the French university which does not guarantee any future. When it comes to the top jobs, the ex-students of the "Grandes Ecoles" will always be top priority. Described by "The Guardian" as "The Cram de la Cream", these schools train an elite for future top careers in administration, industry and government. Two-thirds of the top hundred french firms have directors who are ex graduates of these schools . The privileged graduates of these schools can guarantee a high-ranking career and and accelerated promotion.

Entry to these schools is via highly competetive exams, requiring two of three years of intensive studying in "classe préparatoires" after the baccalauréat in lycées, far superior to anything studied in the first two years at university. Only one in twenty candidates is successful and once enroled in a Grande Ecole, the work will be nowhere near so intense as it was in these preparatory classes. The status of these schools is not necessarily due to the quality of the teaching they offer, but is based on the calibre of its students, and the quality of the various figures associated with it. 

These Grandes Ecoles, with their selective entry processes are the inverse of the universities. Where the universities are poorly equipped, the Grandes Ecoles have more generous allowances. The select and small number of the Grandes Ecoles contrasts with the overcrowding in the university lecture theatres. Whereas the university courses tend to be narrow in perspective and the universities are cut off from the external world, courses in the Grandes Ecoles are far more general in nature and they have en established network of links in industry and with the business world. A graduate of a Grande Ecole will be set up for life, not only by the guarantee of a good job but also through the "old-boys" network, through which graduates from the same school will always do each other favours.

Higher education is still the privilege of the middle and upperclasses, with only about 6% of the university population coming from working class backgrounds, compared to 30% in British Universities. This is even more accentuated in the Grandes Ecoles, which are largely the domaine of the children of "cadres supérieurs" and have proportionally more men then female. In 1945, Debré established the Grande Ecole for Administration, with the aim of democratising or depariscarising the Civil Service via this school. However, it remains that the majority of these pupils are children of "cadres Superieures", male, and from the Parisian region. 

Attempts have been made to make higher education more accessible, for example the establishment of the University of Vincennes for non-bacheliers and through the introduction of "Instituts Universitaires de Technologie" (IUTS) which lead to diplomas with a technical and vocational bias. However, the snobbery within the French system meant that these qualifications were accredited with low prestigue. However, employers are now beginning to accept them.

It has been argued that the Universityes are the "car-parks", for the student proletariat, while "Les Grandes Ecoles" provide the nurseries for the nations future leaders and that the IUTs are factories to churn out the workforce to keep industry and the economy running smoothly and that the Grandes Ecoles are to train the nations future leaders to run the country. The French higher education system remains embued with snobbery. It is entranched with out-dated conceptions and prejudices which prevent it from advancing into a universally equal system.














<ICLE-BR-SUR-0019.1>
In discussing the factors which have marked the development of industrial relations in France under the Fifth Republic, it is first worth mentioning that de Gaulle established the 'comités d'entreprise' in 1946, a forum where the management (patronat), staff and trade unions could meet to discuss the business objectives and solve any disputes between different interest groups. It must also be noted before beginning the discussion of the Fifth Republic, that from 1884-1968 French Unions did not have the right to organise collectively at the workplace, they only had the right to 'social status' - as a national body. Furthermore, the French union movement is not organized according to professions as in Great Britain, but along lines of ideological stance, which gives it a different role altogether. The French unions were not, for a long time, concerned with representing the immediate material interests of their members, but in fighting long-term battles which they hoped would bring about a better and more just society. The CGT (Conféderation Générale du Travail) the largest union with ca 1.2 million members (it claims more) has always had strong communist affiliations, and has constantly been hostile to cooperation with the patronat, seeing its role as the destruction of capitalism. The CFDT (Conféderation française démocratique du travail), has a more reformist stance, and the FO (Force Ouvrière) has a more co-operation nature.

Perhaps due to the ideological extremism of the CGT, perhaps through fear of losing jobs, or of opposing a very authoritative patronat, union membership in France has always been weak, representing at the present time only 15% of the workforce. Thus we begin our discussion of the Fifth Republic.

From 1958 to 1973, economic growth, full employment and prosperity meant that industrial disputes were fairly few and far between. Negotiation at any level was pretty rare as well. The French patronat fall into three categories: the mandarin - who is a product of the French elite and a bureaucrat; the American-style boss who has worked his way up through the hierarchy; and the remnants of the old bourgeois dynasties. Although today, we can divide basic attitudes to industrial relations into two groups: the 'patron patrimoinial - who regards his firm as part of his own personal heritage which he governs by divine right; and the 'patron-Saint-Simonien' - who has a more co-operative stance, realising the creative potential of a motivated and happy workforce. Although the proportion of the latter is growing, French industrial relations have been marred by a majority of the former, probably due to the organisation of French industry in small and medium-sized businesses. So from 1958-73, we witness a lot of patronat control, an excess of 'contractualisation': patronat agreements with individual workers, a lack of collective negotiations, despite the comité d'entreprise. The unions, in particular the CGT, spent its time showing its allegiance to the international proletariat and the Soviet Communists by organising sporadic, ineffective one-day strikes which were ineffective.

Then in 1968, as a result of the massive demonstrations and frustation, the unions won the right to organize at the workplace. Union members were ceded noticeboards and a greater part in negotiations.

In 1973 at the time of the first oil shock, the CGT saw this as a chance to finally bring down capitalism and used strikes to exacerbate the government's attempts to bring down inflation. The unions demanded higher salaries but in the face of high inflation and unemployment, these demands were totally unrealistic. The patronat began to get annoyed and between 1975 and 1977 refused categorically to discuss salaries, a reduction in the working week and holidays with the unions. Union membership fell drastically as employees tried desperately to cling on to their jobs by agreeing to any type of contract with the patronat.

When Mitterrand came to power in 1981, despite the lack of links between French unions and the Socialist party, the unions were hopeful that workers' rights would improve. The French government has always been interventionist and in truth, workers have done better from state legislation (1884-social statute, 1968-right to organize at the workplace) than from the political games of the unions. In 1982, we see a turning-point in French industrial relations with the passing of the lois Auroux. Firstly, the workers were granted the long-awaited reduction in working hours to 39 a week. There was to be a 'Réglement Intérieur' stating all rules of firm practice, so that employees would know when they were infringing on their employers' terms. Any discipline case could be referred to the 'Conseil de Prud'hommes', to assure that there had not been arbitrary disciplining and that the penalty fitted the infringement - Workers had the right to elect their own members to this body. The right of negotiation and wage - bargaining by the unions was extended to firms of less than 50 employees, and the comité d'entreprise had now to discuss salaries and working hours on an annual basis. Union representatives were protected from discrimination by hostile bosses, and granted the right to do union work on firm time - in some cases they even got offices.

With the new change in negotiations and as a result of the oil shocks, there was also a change in the bosses' attitudes. There has been an increase in the number of 'patron Saint-Simoniens' who have begun to realise the potential of a cooperative and happy workforce. Workers also have the right to express their opinions directly to management as a result of the lois Auroux, instead of having to go via the comité d'entreprise or their 'délégué syndical'. There were management-inspired improvements to working conditions and Labour relations. Surprisingly, the unions were hostile to these - fearing that management was trying to push them to the sidelines and undermining their power to represent workers' interests. Two examples of such 'enlightened' bosses were Carayon and Bougeneaux - Carayon tried to reduce monotony by forming production teams in semi-autonomous groups, so that the could fulfil projects completing - learning from each other, giving each worker a sense of achievement importance and worth, and team spirit. This move was successful in increasing productivity and is widely adopted in France, although the CGT were suspicious and had him removed from power. Bougeneaux used staff-participation schemes to encourage staff to participate in the running of their firm, to increase innovation, and a sense of belonging. This worked well too.

The Eighties also marked the era of individualism, when workers preferred to form individual links with bosses rather than collective negotiation. This may be because, as Union membership fell, the Unions appeared even more extreme than before because those who remained were committed political activists. Thus individual agreements have risen, and the unions have lost power. They organised strikes as a measure of protest against the 'politique d'austérité' in 1983, but apart from the disruptions of 1986 over salaries, have been fairly inactive.

French industrial relations have been characterized by a strong authorative patronat but one which has evolved in the face of economic pressure; a state which protects workers by intervening in otherwise largely hostile relationships, a weak unionized group; and a series of individual agreements between management and workers which looks as if it will continue throughout the 90's.


 














 


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0020.1>
All industrial relations are based on socialist groupings. In France unionisation has proved to be very weak and generally unsuccessful and this seems to reflect the Socialist political parties, whose underlying predudices and differences make them divided and unstable too.

When the socialists came to power in 1981, the Trade Unions hoped to gain a lot. In the Auroux laws of 1982/3 the socialists looked to sorting out the "code du travail" whose laws had barely been implemented especially due to the large number of Petite et Moyenne Entreprise which existed. They changed about 1/3 of this "Code du Travail" giving greater protection in the workplace for the worker, rules on disciplinary matters publicised and checked by the Ministry of Labour, and increased freedom of expression. Completely against the TU's wishes, and before the 1986 elections, the Socialists made redundancy easier to give and were trying to make the working week more flexible.

Trade Unions were legalised in 1884, although they were not allowed to form meetings or have a place on the factory floors and public services, including railways were at first forbidden to unionize. However they had to wait until Nov 1968 for trade unions to be given a legal status in factories and work places. This came after violent and extensive strikes during May 1968 when it is said that approximately 100,000 workers striked, frightening employers into changing attitudes. 
The main Trade Union group is the CGT founded in 1895 and very closely attached to the Communist party (PCF). It advocates industrial action and membership of the PCF is  a large aid in being a member. Then there is the CGT-FO (conféderation générale du travail-force ouvrière) which was a break-away from the Communist CGT in 1947. The 3rd biggest party is the CFDT (Confédération française democratique du travail). This is a group form in 1963 when the CFTC broke up as it had become too radical for many of its Catholic members. The CFDT is connected with the PS (Partie Socialiste) although it is the least eager to appear as acting as a back-up for politics.

Besides these 3 groups there are many other Trade Union formations in France - their large number meaning weakness and low membership.

The economic crisis of the 70s meant that union membership fell dramatically. The Unions can pressure employers on matters of wages and working conditions when there is a recession on, but they are powerless in economic crisis.As unemployment rose, wages were held down in the name of competition. Chaos reigned. 

Due to the expulsion of the Communists from government in 1947 and the following split of the CGT to create the CGT-FO, there has been much hostility between Communists and non-Communists. The Communists adopted and kept the aim for industrial revolution in the footsteps of the proles in the Soviet Union. Employers are also afraid of them as they donot really know how far they want to go. Of course, hostilities increased during the Cold War, but surely relations should be cooler with present West-East relations improving.

TU membership in France is approximation 3-4 million. French unionization was approximately 23% in the 70s and has fallen to around 11% now. 

Collective-bargaining has been introduced but is very difficult due to all the representatives needed from each TU.

The government began very interventionalist in its efforts to rebuild the economy. It also had to act as a go-between between the employers and employees who refused to get on: the employers refused to recognise the trade unions as a legitimate and safe partner. Relations between them remained hostile and unco-operative until the events of May 1968 frightened the employers into believing there would be a revolution. They therefore began to listen more closely to employees, speaking to them directly and so making the Trade Unions redundant. The TUs were at the time not being looked on favourably anyway, after accepting the Grenelle agreemts proposed immediatly after the events of May 1968. The workers felt that they had been compromised.

The elections of 1986 were a first, as the trade unions gave no specific indications or directions to their members, as previously done, on how to vote. The CGT were doubtful of the Communists success, which was well anticipated as they did not do too healthily.

It seems very doubtful that any trade union will ever gain concessions from a government, be it left or right. Employers do regret the lack of unionism in their firms though, because when trouble does arise, the workers are not organised and have no leadership; concession groups led by political activists usually emerge, which are obviously not good for the employers. 

More and more employers are setting up discussion groups to ease talks between themselves and their employees. These extend the "comités d'enterprise" which were strengthened after 1968 but make no decisions and are simply forums for discussion: they are consultative bodies.














<ICLE-BR-SUR-0021.1>
Although the Fifth Republic has been considerably more stable than previous Republics, there have, however, been various changes in government which have prevented continuity in policy matters, especially in terms of education.

I will briefly mention previous reforms from the beginning of the Fifth Republic and show that the present situation is still beridden by inequality and various forms of social selection at secondary and at higher education level. I will briefly compare it to points in the English system. 

The Fouchet reforms made the first cycle of secondary school (the first four years) more combined, yet they also introduced tracks or 'filières' at this early stage where people had to make options concerning their future. It proved that those from the lower social classes were encouraged, and still are to a certain extent to take the shorter educational option which leads to employment at an earlier stage.

Haby sought to resolve these problems of social selection and aimed to postpone the need to make choices until a later time. He envisaged an orientation cycle in the last two years of the first cycle, then for those carrying on, there was to be a general course of two years when the first half of the 'baccalauréat' would be taken, then the last year would involve more choice for students. The second half of the 'bac' would be taken at this stage. 

The problem was that the orientation cycle brought back some of the 'tracking' of the previous system so a form of social selection still continued.

Savary aimed to reduce these inequalities but a change of government shortened his tenure in office. 

Chevènement aimed more at reconstructing than reforming, with the encouragement of an 'école démocratique' as opposed to the idea of 'école unique' by Haby.

The results of this are seen today. At secondary level, those leaving school after the first cycle to continue training in a Collège d'enseignement secondaire for example are still primarily those from poor backgrounds who are dissuaded by their parents from going to the Lycée but instead encouraged to find a job at an earlier stage. Having said this though, there are still however several working class children who go on to the lycée where they will take their 'bac'. This route has always had a great deal of importance attatched to it because acquiring a 'bacalauréat' is the requirement to continue into further education.

Lionel Jospin in 1989 aimed to increase the numbers of those taking the 'bac' to 80% in fifteen years as an attempt to increase equality of opportunity, however he aimed for 80% of people to take the 'bac', which does not necessarily mean they will pass it.

At this secondary level, therefore, children may either continue to take the 'bac', or they may take a shorter course for example the 'Brevet d'enseignement professionel' (BEP). Another course, which leads to the 'Certificat d'aptitude professionel' is supposed to be more practical, and more linked to future employment.

The result is that a pupil who has obtained the 'bac' may continue into higher education. The liklihood of a pupil continuing with education will depend, as in England on family background, in terms of what parents did, but also in terms of family financial support since grants are so low in France, and now non-existent in Great-Britain.

At the higher education level, there are universities and grands-écoles in France. It is the grands-écoles which are seen as élitist and since two years studying needs to be done before you even take the entrance exam, once again, those with less financial resources will be discouraged from taking this route.

The grands-écoles come in different forms, the best reputed of which is the 'Ecole Polytechnique'. The 'Ecole Normale Supérieur' is also very élitist and trains teachers. The 'Ecole National d'Administration' is particularly important though because it trains the top civil servants of the country. The result is that those who have the means to continue into a 'grand-école' can assure themselves of a well-paid, high-positioned job when they leave.

In England, it is the universities at this stage which are seen as more prestigious, as compared to the polytechnics. However, social selection in England actually begins at an earlier stage and it is accentuated by the presence of private schools. The English seem to be more prepared than the French to pay directly for their children's education, which explains the greater importance of private schools in Great-britain. The fees for private schools are very high, particularly for the more prestigious ones like Harrow, and Eton. These high fees immediately form as  a barrier to families of a lower income: - even if they may wish for their children to go there.

The form of social selection at secondary level in Great-Britain, is therefore to do with financial means. The system is seen as cyclical to a certain extent though because those children who went to a private school often become those who are best paid in later life. In the French system at this level, the question is more about merit than financial means. Those who enter the lycée may be seen as the meritocratic élite therefore.

At the higher education level in France, the grands-écoles are seen to be highly selective not only in terms of merit but to a certain extent in terms of dissuading those of a lower social standing.

At the higher education level in Great-Britain however, it is the universities which are seen as more prestigious. However, the fact that the highly élite universities of Oxford and Cambridge do take on students that are not from a particularly wealthy background serves as a landmark that if you are good enough then you will succeed whatever your background.

It has proved particularly difficult in France to change the education system because of the successive changes in policies, and due to an apparent lack of national consensus over the rôle of education.

The present situation may be liked by Chevènement though, who said that in some cases inequality was the only answer if it meant that highly trained people were the result.





















<ICLE-BR-SUR-0022.1>
The Algeiran crisis led the French Parliament in 1958 to allow de Gaulle and his government recast the political groundrules in a new constitution. This, he confirmed, would be typical of any constitution in a traditionally democratic Western society. Despite this limitation de Gaulle and his followers were able to shape the new Constitution largely according to their own views as to what would constitute a strong and durable republican regime. Debré, for example, was impressed by the British model; parlementarisme rationnel meant that the Government is not at the mercy of Parliament, yet is ultimately answerable to it and thereby be forced to resign.

De Gaulle, however, was the main inspiration of the Constitution. His experience of 1940 made him realise the need for strong, determined leadership from the top. Before the war this was greatly lacking.

The majority of articles relevant to the Presidnet in the 1958 Constitution were largely similar to those under the Third and Fourth Republics. Despite this, there were several new powers introduced and listed in Article 19 including, for example, Article 11 - referendum, Article 12 - right of dissolution and Article 16 - emergency powers.

There were, however ambiguities and certainties in the text which have proved very significant in determining the President's role in the 5th Republic. The role of the Prime Minister was such that he had powers and responsibilities in respect of government policy that could be seen to overlap with the President's function to mediate (arbitrage) between contending groups to ensure the smooth running of the country, assigned to him by Article 5.

This was open to varying interpretation. The maximalist interpretation was generally accepted. This meant that the President, instead of being limited to the 'domaine réservé' ie the powers attributed to him under the Constitution, he was justified by virtue of this article in intervening in policy-making and its implementation.

The President was also independent in carrying out this function: he was not accountable to Parliament by virtue of ARticle 68 and not even directly accountable to it via ministers or the Prime Minister for their 'contreseing'(countersignature) was not required by him.

Whereas it had previously been the normal French practice and was that of other european democracies to confer the most significant powers to those most accountable this was not the case under the 5th Republic at least while the PRESIDENT IS SUPPORTED BY A PRALIAMENTARY MAJORITY. Under these circumstances the President has been largely free to fulfil this maximalist interpretation and thus be assumed to be the head of the Executive.

This 'gouvernement présidentiel' can be explained for various factors. Because of de Gaulle's enigma, the wish of the French people and a friendly and somewhat submissive relationship between de Gaulle and his Prime Minister it was soon realized that the President's role would surpass that as outlined in the Constitution.

De Gaulle realized that the President could lose this position in two situations: if a less prestigious Prime Minister should succeed him or the parliamentary majority forced a newly elected president to conform more rigidly to a constitution. In his desire to maintain the concept of presidential dominance in the Executive - in the future he solved this by modifying, by referendum, the way in which a President was elected. In October 1962 this modification, which involved the direct election of the President by universal suffrage, was accepted by the French people. This effectively meant that any government policies had to be in line with those for which the President had been elected, thereby affirming his role as head of the Executive.

The Prime Minister's role was leadership in the field of political debate and the everyday matters involving economic and administrative functions that went with it. The President defined in collaboration with the Prime Minister and the Government government policy, the latter being accountable to Parliament. 

The following survey considers the interpretations of their roles by de Gaulle's successors.
Georges Pompidou (1969-1979)
Being elected President, affirmed the people's desire that 'gouvernement présidentiel' should be maintained: because he won on the basis that he would continue the regime in all its aspects.

Valéry Giscard d'Estaing
This was described as a tentacular presidency. He was far more interventionalist in the field of domestic policy. Despite this he was not as deformative of the Constitution as his predecessors, conforming closely to articles 11, 12, and 16. 

François Mitterand
Although, as suggested by his 'cent-dix propositions pour la France', Mitterrand seemed to accept the maximalist interpretation of the President's role, he stood further back from intervention in government policy than his predecessors, preferring to concentrate on 'les grandes directions, les grandes orientations'.  

The period of 1986-1988, that of cohabitation has been particularly significant in the evolution of the President's role. Chirac became Prime Minister after the Right's majority in the legislative elections. In effect, Mitterand remained in power and lost many of his theoretical prerogatives to the Government.

Since cohabitation Rocard (P.M.) has been at the forefront of domestic politics.

As has been shown, the role of the President in the 5th Republic has been, and is likely to continue to be, dictated by circumstances. As it is, Mitterrand remains the 'Head of the Executive and maintains, in theory, the practical powers which developed under his predecessors although in reallity these seem, at least under him, to have somewhat waned.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0023.1>

The trade union movement in France originated after the French revolution and has always tended to be revolutionary or ideological in character. The number of French employees unionized is relatively small (about 11%) and thus there is great competition between individual trade unions for membership, and a great distinction between the individual characteristics.

During an economic expansion, as was experienced by France in the period 1945-75, unions can make demands for their workers for better pay and working conditions. But during a recession, as followed the oil crisis in 1975, their demands would be ineffective and membership would drop. This is what happened in France.

Membership fell as the unions were deemed ineffective in securing worker demands. The unions has always been political in nature which limited their membership, and once membership dropped, those members who were left tended to be those who identified with the unions' political views, which restricted union aims still further.

Before 1968, unions were not legally allowed in the workplace in France and there were few negotiations. The little there was was at a general and regional level, far removed from the average worker's demands, and this did not help the falling membership numbers.

Employers tended to be suspicious of unions and did not see them as a valuable means of worker representation. This was because the great majority of firms in France were small family concerns which had sprung up in the 19th century - the PME (petites et moyennes entreprises). The boss was seen as a patriarch who should not be challenged.

The period of industrial relations in France under the 5th Republic can be divided into three periods. The first is 1958 to 1968. During this time the State was highly interventionist in its approach to the economy, regulating pay and price levels and investing in and developping the economy. Employers were wary of unions, so the state had to act as an intermediary between the two sides to develop a little dialogue between them. 

However in May 1968 there were worker strikes and riots, and employers saw their authority in question, and were forced to stand down. Trade unions were legalised in the work place. As well as being legitimized in the workplace, unions could also put up candidates for the "comités d'entreprise" (a sort of joint employee/employer council for discussion and debate) and for the industrial tribunals. Their powers were dramaticaly increased therefore, paradoxically at a time when membership was beginning to fall. The "Genelle Agreements" also raised minimum pay and raised pay in certain industries (e.g. the railway industry). From this time on employers became more modernist in their thinking and trade unions could get the changes they wanted by negotiating collective contracts. The prominent positions in the CNPF were taken by this new generation of entrepreneurs. It should be mentioned here that the CNPF is an organisation set up in 1946 to protect employers.

With the oil shock and ensuing recession of 1973, the third period in french industrial relations began. The recession, and the increased competition from the Common Market meant that firms had to increase their productivity and competitivity, and this meant laying off workers. The trade unions were powerless to stop the rising unemployment, and were often wrongfooted as they could not gain better pay for their members during the recession. This meant membership would fall.

When the socialists came to power in 1981 with the election of Mitterrand, no one was quite sure how they would act in the field of industrial relations. As it turned out, the Auroux Laws of 1982 and 1983 completely modernised industrial relations and changed a third of the "code du travail". The Auroux Laws had four main aspects.

The first was that employees would now be able to voice their opinions directly (not just via trade union channels) and collectively, and employers would be forced to listen to their points of view.

Secondly, discrimination against a worker would not be allowed. The company would have to draw up rules for a code of practice, which would be made known to all employees and to the Ministry of Employment.

Thirdly, if an employee did something wrong, he could not be punished arbritarily. He was to be invited to attend a preliminary interview with his employer to see what he had done wrong, and could have a union representative present if he so wished. Presivously only industrial tribunals could help employees.

Finally there was great encouragement to collective bargaining. It was hoped that negotiation would become a regular part of industrial relations, not just something used in crisis situations. Any firm with over 100 employees could have a comité d'entreprise and should negotiate regularly on a firm level. There would also be industry negotiations every so often to decide pay levels in the sector.

However the Auroux laws on collective bargaining were not compulsory and could only act as an encouragement. But it is encouraging to see negotiation becoming a more normal and everyday part of industrial relations.

The collective bargaining which was used at the "height" of the unions sucess (1968-1973) was not without weaknesses. The negotiations were often carried out at a general, regional level which was far removed from individual worker aims. Often the industry was taken as a whole in subjects like pay and only the minimum pay of the weakest firms in the industry was altered. The unions tended to view the SMIC as the bottom rung in the pay ladder and put pressure on the Government to increase it , thus increasing all pay levels. The unions also tended to view each negotiation as an opportunity to gain as much as they could on that one occasion. Meanwhile the employers saw this, and thus only offered very few changes as they were fearful of what the unions would try to take.

Once negotiations were completed, and collective agreements decided upon, neither party stuck to the agreement and observed its rules and conditions.

Finally the pluralism of trade unions exacerbated the problems. Many different union representatives had to be involved in any negotiation and this complicated the process.

There were other methods of employee representation, of course, such as the "comité d'entreprise" but this was not compulsory in firms with over 100 employees, and of course the abundance of PME's meant that many firms were not eligible for it anyway. 

Then, as we can see, the level of unionization in France is very low. It has reached the stage where even employers wish it were higher, since when there is worker discontent, the problems are aggravated by the fact that the workers have no coherent leadership and are so disorganized. However it should be remembered that workers in France quite often show their support for a trade union by voting for it, not by joining it and becoming a member.

We can therefore see that relations between employers and employees have often been strained. The best time for the unions was between 1968 and 1973 when they could negotiate collective contracts for their members, but this was stopped by the recession of the 1970's. Their powers had increased, but paradoxically, union membership did not.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0024.1>

Under the 5th Republic the most salient feature to emerge is the form of presidentialism started by General de Gaulle and carried on successful by his successors. From 1791 to 1958 France has known 16 constitutions and since 1875 3 Republics. The 4th Republic was characterised by a weak government and a weak presidency, with power being concentrated in the hands of a divided National Assembly. The collapse of the 4th Republic and the mounting problem of the Algerian situation brought back to power the charismatic figure of de Gaulle who was seen as the only person capable of dealing and solving the Algerian problem. In his years in exile de Gaulle saw France humiliated by her defeat and subsequent occupation by the Germans, ruled by the notorious Vichy regime and, after the end of the war, still not in control of her fate, having to align herself with the United States. France was "the sick man of Europe". De Gaulle saw this sickness as a result of the role and authority of the state being undermined and on coming to power in 1958 de Gaulle was determined to strengthen the state and create a strong Executive, which he hoped he would lead. His importance in shaping the 1958 constitution cannot be overestimated and, though it can be said that it was tailor-made for him, it would be truer to say that the constitution became more and more tailor-made for him as a result of constitutional amendment and changes in political life. On drafting the text two conflicting notions had to be reconciled. De Gaulle favoured a return to the old Bonapartist tradition of the President having full, almost, omnipotent powers but others fearing this style of power concentrated in the hands of just one source wanted the government to have more power. A compromise was reached in which power would be shared by a strong Executive comprising of a president and a cabinet headed by a Prime Minister responsible to Parliament. De Gaulle ended by strengthening the Executive in favour of the presidency and his interpretation of the most ambiguous word in the text, "arbitrage" has been untouched for more than 30 years. In Article 5 the word "arbitrage" can be interpreted differently; on one hand it can mean that the president is an impartial observer and referee and does not deal with problems but on the other hand it can mean that he is in charge of the daily run of the country, obviously having a more dynamic and interventionist role.

De Gaulle chose the second interpretation and quickly established presidential preeminence and authority. This interpretation has been upheld by his successors and the Gaullist legacy has continued. What then, were his powers and how have they expanded under successive presidents?

In his 10 years in office de Gaulle implemented many changes in the french political system. The trditional powers bestowed on him were ruthlessly exploited, used and abused. These included Head of State, Commander-in-Chief of Armed Forces and the power to appoint or dismiss the Prime Minister of his choice. De Gaulle was also given carte blanche to define European, domestic, defence and foreign policy and he did so, creating the office of the presidency and turning the presidency into the centre of decision-making. He became the chief policy maker and in the fields of foreign and defence policy he left his hallmark firmly implanted.

His achievements were to veto twice Britain's entry into the common Market, solve the Algerian problem single-handedly, make a rapprochement with countries in Eastern Europe, give full recognition to the Communist party of China and in his attempt to break away from American tutelage withdrew France from NATO, and drew up plans for France's own nuclear deterrent. 

De Gaulle made use of all his principal powers in his first four years in office and he wielded his power-tool, the power to call a referendum, ruthlessly. This was used twice on the Algerian problem, in October 1962 to reform the constitution in order for the president to be elected by universal suffrage, and once more in 1969. The referendum, under de Gaulle, became synonymous with a plebiscite as each time de Gaulle put forward the proposal it was clear that the elector was voting for de Gaulle's proposals, giving him, in effect, a vote of confidence. The 1962 reform tipped the balance in the favour of the presidency after a record turnout (85%) voted for his proposal to elect a President by the people. Now, de Gaulle proclaimed, the president is the elected of the nation, by the nation, and as such is the holder and source of legitimate power, having the mandate from the people.

Also within de Gaulle's power was the power to dissolve the National Assembly, which he did twice, in 1962 and 1968. After the student revolts of May 1968 he reformed the french higher education system and under Article 16 exercised his emergency powers in Algeria between April 23rd and September 29th. Though the office of president was far from being "omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent" his power and influence was quite considerable.

De Gaulle's contribution to the presidential power was great and far-reaching and he unhestitatingly used and exploited the text of the constitution to change matters in his favour. This interpretation of Article 5 has been left untouched and the role of the President has expanded and extended into other domains. Under his successor George Pompidou, the presidency has embraced the economic, financial and institutional spheres. Pompidou declared that the presidency would continue to be the seat of decision-making. His slogan was "continuité et ouverture". The only difference between Pompidou and de Gaulle was style; Pompidou was more cautious and realised that France had her limits on the international scene. At home Pompidou intervened in financial and economic areas, creating and restructuring French industry. The functions of the presidency have thus expanded. The reasons behind de Gaulle's and Pompidou's sucess to keep presidential authority strong lies in the large majority enjoyed by the Gaullists. This was the key and cornerstone to presidential preeminence.

In 1974 Valéry Giscard d'Estaing,Pompidou's former Finance Minister, narrowly beat the socialist candidate, François Mitterrand, to become the 3rd president of the Vth Republic. D'Estaing further enhanced the presidency by embracing social and environmental fields. He promoted an advanced liberal society and succeeded in the social domain to reduce the voting age to 18, legalise female contraception and abortion and he retained his tight hold over the financial area. In the environmental field he promoted protection of the environment, by obstructing plans to build concrete motorways and ugly edifices and maintained the natural beauty of the French countryside.

François Mitterrand has seen his party, the socialists, occupying seats in the opposition and has thus been forced to "cohabit" with his non-socialist Prime Minister, M. Rocard, and divide some of the powers between him. Mitterrand has also been obliged to fall back on the text of the constitution where in articles 20 and 21 it states the prime Minister deals with the nation's affairs.

The ambiguity of the text has favoured the presidency according to the political climate at the time. Presidential authority has been the most salient factor of the 5th Republic and since de Gaulle the office has grown in strength, prestige and has enhanced powers ranging from Chief policy maker in defence and foreign affairs, modernising the French economy and advocating an advanced liberal society. Under Mitterrand we have seen the nationalisation of firms and new balance of power in Parliament. The text is more adhered to now as Mitterrand has not got a majority to back up his policies in Parliament but he still enjoys the privileges and wields power in the same manner as his predecessors.
  








<ICLE-BR-SUR-0025.1>
When General de Gaulle came to power in 1958, it was generally expected that the role of president would be given a new status in the policy of decision making. De Gaulle's Bayeux speech and subsequent centrings made it clear that a clearly visible president was required, who would be the 'keystone' to the parliamentary régime. The constitution of 1958 honoured this, by placing the President first among the members of parliament.

There is however a fundamental difference between the powers that the constitution and those who drafted it gave the President and the powers that he subsequently acquired. The result is a very interesting example of how circumstances and personality can change the constitution.

The constitution had originally left policy and decision making to the prime minister and his government (articles 20-23). The power granted under article twelve to dissolve parliament would, according to Michel Debré, only allow a short exchange with the public. According to the constitution, the President was only to assume the role of constitutional dictator in times of grave trouble (art. 16). In a brilliant exegis of the constitution he had authored in large part, Michel Debré said that the role of the President was to be that of an arbiter, to oversee the constitution, and be 'beyond politics and the political parties. 

This seems to have been somewhat unrealistic. Neither the war in Algeria, nor, despite appearances the personality of de Gaulle would let him be the arbiter of the constitution. 
The referendum in 1962 gave the President the legitimacy of the public vote. Now he was directly answerable to the people.

In 1964 Charles de Gaulle realistically defined his role as President. He was still prepared to play the role of arbiter when absolutely necessary. According to him he was the head of Parliament and no other institution either social or judiciary was higher than him. He saw parliament as 'sitting around him'.

According to him, article 16 was the absolute defence of 'La Patrie'. Because of Article twelve, the President can dissolve Parliament at any time that he thinks is opportune to him and so he can directly interfere with the organisation of Parliament. When he thinks that the constitution is being abused, he can enroll the conseil constitutionnel, and, according to de Gaulle, when the conseil Constitutionnel cannot be used, as arbiter of the constitution, the President can interfere with the unconstitutionel question himself. 
General de Gaulle himself only ever used article 16 once when their was trouble in Algiers, and order was quickly restored.

The President can be tried for high treason. It has been shown however that in times of trouble, those in power of communications often regain control. This is the only control there is on the President.

Critics of the constitution, said it left too much power to the President, which could be dangerous in the hands of his successors. Defenders of the constitution said however that the fact that he was elected by the people was a control.

When his successors, first Pompidou, who had been de Gaulle's prime minister for six years and then Giscard d'Estaing had come to power, they both made it clear that they intended to keep the presidency as de Gaulle had left it. Pompidou himself praised the 'bastard' qualities of the system

If in the last years of his presidency, d'Estaing took on a more prominant role then, it was only partly because of his personality. The main reason was the division between his prime minister and his party, which he wanted to hide by his prominence.

When the constitution was drafted it was expected that there would be controversy betwen the prime ministers and presidents, but after three different Presidents each with very individual personalities, these were not apparent.

Each of the Presidents added their own personalities to the  role, for example Pompidou was interested in defence and economics and so added these areas to his role as President. With hindsight however it is true to say that d'Estaing and Pompidou left the presidency very much as they had found it.

Mitterand had always criticized the ambiguous constitution. In a parliamentary debate with d'Estaing, he thundered that France should adopt an 'honest' system.

In his election campaign in 1981 however the socialist candidate made no criticism of the constitution, most probably because he recognized, that the electorat was perfectly happly with the system. In his first speech after his election, he said that he intended to carry out the role of president to the full extent of his powers and that he considered himself as 'guardian' of the constitution.

During the years of cohabitation however, Mitterand had to use only his 'de facto' powers as strictly defined by the constitution and he was less in prominence than his predecessors.It is possible that he benefited from this More recently, Mitterand has been heard to criticize his prime minister Rocard in public.












<ICLE-BR-SUR-0026.1>
The Constitution of the 5th Republic was drawn up as a compromise between the "Republicans" of the political parties of the 4th Republic and de Gaulle and his followers who wanted to enhance the role of the president. The constitution which was drawn up between Michel Debré, de Gaulle and a small group of ministers, was however unclear. It tried to fuse two uncompatible notions: that of separation of powers with a powerful head of state (presidentialism) and the principle of parliamentary responsibility to a government (parliamentarism). This is shown below: <chart>.

Some articles clear state that it is the prime minister who rules (for example article 21) whereas successive presidents and prime ministers have said it is the president who is the supreme power (by their interpretation of article 5). Whatever the case it became clear that the constitution strengthened presidential power and made the executive responsible to parliament.

Before discussing the ambiguity and the role of the president I will briefly mention the functions of the prime minister. Much of his original power as defined by the consitution <quote> has been usurped by successive presidents and their interpretation of their function such that now his main role is to take interest in areas which do not interest the president, coordinate government policy, liaise with parliament to enable the smooth passing of a law, maintain friendly contact with the largest coalition party and arbitrate in conflicts between coalition parties.

The original role given to the president of the 5th Republic was a continuation of that of the 4th Republic in that he could nominate and dismiss the prime minister and other ministers, he is chairman of the Constitutional Council, he can negociate and ratify international treaties, sign decrees, promolgate laws and grant pardons. However, the constitution did allow for an extension of the role of the president granting him new powers; for example the ability to dissolve the national assembly and ask the Constitual Council to judge on the constitutionality of a law (previously the prime minister's role). It is because of article 5 that the definition of the president's functions is ambiguous because this article contains the concept of arbitrage (the president can either be directly involved in or kept apart from decision making) and is sufficiently vague to have allowed successive presidents to interpret it as they wished. Whatever the aim of the initiaters of the constitution the power of the presidency has been strengthened throughout the 5th Republic and the nature of his office has changed such that he is now the head of state and of the executive, guardian of national heritage and patromony and the ultimate political decision maker. The priority given to each of the above rules has depended on the temperament of the president in power but it seems that the president's role has been much more forceful, interventionist and political than a reading of the consitution would imply.

De Gaulle was the first President of the 5th Republic and it was he who established the role. He introduced two provisions to enable him to govern the country as he wished. The first of these was the introduction of article 16 which gave him the right to claim special powers in emergency situations. This was not very popular because of the possibility for abuse. The second provision was the introduction of the referendum as an alternative means of election. This gave de Gaulle the opportunity to have a link with the people and it brought about the only amendment of the constitution in 1962 - that of election by universal suffrage.

Despite these provisions de Gaulle was not prevented from acting unconstitutionally; for example in 1960 he refused to invoke a session of parliament despite the majority of parliament wanting it and in 1961 he abused article 16. Like his three successors, de Gaulle used the political circumstances to strengthen his position.

It was in Algeria that he really used his political position to win the Algerian war. For the first four years of the Republic it was Algeria which kept the other political parties from acting against de Gaulle and he was allowed to abuse the constitution, consolidate his personal position and strengthen his office.

Despite using his own personality to expand his role he did leave some decision making to his ministers. He was mainly responsible for foreign and defence policies, colonial and French community questions and economic questions.

Having failed in his aims with the referendum of 1969 de Gaulle resigned but the practice was firmly established for his successor, Pompidou to use it to gain power over and alongside parliament.

He continued to rule in the same way as de Gaulle which surprised a lot of people showing how "Gaullist" tradition has become embedded in the 5th Republic. He used the referendum in '72 with reference to UK entry into the EC and to dismiss Chaban-Dalmas.

Pompidou expanded the role of de Gaulle to include economic and industrial policies. He was obsessed with the economical development of France and transforming the nation into a great industrial power. He was responsible for the devaluation of the franc in '69 but did give a lot of control to his ministers.

Giscard d'Estaing came to power in 1974 and increased the role of the president once more, showing how it has evolved over time. He was unwilling to relinquish any of the previous presidential powers and added to this his own special fields of finance, social and environmental questions. He was more centrist and interventionist. He nominated Chirac as his prime minister but Chirac did not like the way the president intervened so much so he resigned. He then nominated Barre to keep the support of the largest party but Barre was unpopular and was one of the many reasons for d'Estaing's defait.

Mitterrand came to power in 1981 and immediately dissolved the national assembly. His main concerns involved increasing the economical strength of the country and making France a more pluralistic society.

In '86-'88 there was a period of cohabitation with Chirac as head of government. The president was no longer head of parliament but he kept his role in foreign and domestic policies and as "chef des armées". He had to go back to the role defined by the constitution which alowed him to move into the background slightly in political life. '88-'91 has seen a socialist majority again but Mitterrand has continued to hold himself in the background and has help open conflict with Rocard, giving Rocard more room for manoeuvre.

Therefore as can be seen the role of the president has evolved over time and has been strengthened. He has often usurped the role of the prime minister and used his own personality to leave his mark on the country; for example de Gaulle is responsible for many of the Institutions, Pompidou the industry, d'Estaing Nuclear Power and the telecommunications network. The president is now the head of state, de facto head of government and ultimate political decision maker.















<ICLE-BR-SUR-0027.1>
The constitution of the 5th Republic was adopted by the nation on the 28th of September 1958. It was a compromise between the Gaullists and other political forces. Although a rather controversial constitution two facts did emerge. First that the presidency had been strengthened and secondly that the executive had been strengthened vis-à-vis the parliament.

I will briefly discuss the Prime Ministers role and then elaborate on the Presidents functions. Then I will analyse each presidency showing how the presidents role has evolved.

In the constitution it is not very clear who exactly is in charge. Some articles clearly suggest it is the prime minister who is in charge while past Presidents and prime ministers have claimed it is the president. Some argued that there should be a twin-headed executive but in the past prime ministers have always accepted Presidential supremacy.

The constitution says that the Prime Minister is in general charge of the government. Certain function have been clearly listed eg. The appointing of ministers. However this function has been usurped by the president, along with certain other functions.

Giscard d'Estaing when asked what the prime minister role was, replied that the prime minister was in charge of contingency problems whereas the president was in charge of what was permanent and essential. He was clearly violating the spirit of the constitution but was merely reiterating what was practiced and preached by his predecessors. So the role of the prime minister remains a controversial issue.

The role of the president is defined in the Constitution but is rather ambiguous and controversial too. Article 5 claims that the president is an "arbiter". This is rather ambiguous. Does this mean he plays a neutral function, as he is an impartial referee and stays away from the making of policies or does it mean he must intervene and play an active role?

The term 'arbiter' is sufficiently vague enough to allow presidents to interpret it as they wish, and this they did. De Gaulle claimed it empowered him to rule the nations and his successors all acted as if it meant playing an interventionist role.

According to the constitution the president has five basic functions. He is the ceremonial head of state, the head of the executive, guardian of the national interest, the spokesman of the government and lastly the appointer of the prime minister and other people in key postions. The presidential interpretation of the last point has been rather elastic. Not only have prime ministers been appointed, they have been dismissed. Accordiing to this article, the president appoints ministers with the aid of the Prime Minister but over time the president needs merely the formal consent of the prime minister.


So the priority given to these functions, and their interpretation has very much depended on the personality and temprement of the presidents.

General Charles De Gaulle was the first president of the fifth Republic. He was elected in 1958 and stayed in power for ten years.

He argued that the reason for the collapse of the Fourth Republic was the lack of a strong executive authority. Too much power was given to the parliament and not enough to the president. The president could only exercise his power depending on the mood of the parliament.

De Gaulle had seen his beloved country collapse (the squabbling politicains of the 30's, the cowardice of the political élite in the 40s and under occupation) and so he did not wish to see this happen again.

He therefore interefered directly and indirectly in the making of the constitution. He had no parliamentary experience and disliked being vetoed or overruled and so was determined to strengthen the presidency. Although he was unable to change the constitution into a fully presidential one he did manage too include two clauses which gave the president a lot of power. The first was the right for the president to claim special powers in times of emergency and secondly was the use of referenda.

De Gaulle like referenda. It enabled him to bypass parliament and talk to the nation directly. In fact it was thanks to a referendum in October 1962 he managed to make a major constitutional change - the election of the president by universal suffrage. The significance of this can not be overestimated because it pushed in favour of the president the ambiguous balance between power between the President and the Prime Minister.

In 1959 the president of the National Assembly defined the so-called presidential domain. The president could deal with only Foreign Affairs, Defence Policy, the French Community and Algeria. This interpretation was rejected by De Gaulle by his speeches and his actions.

He dealt with the above issues but also added colonies and Europe to his domain. He claimed that it was up to the President to decide which domaines he would intervene in. So although De Gaulle defined his own domain he did not hesitate to intervene in other matters which he believed important or interesting.

Regarding algeria, presidential supremacy was quickly established. De Gaulle made important decisions without consulting his minister or Prime Minister. Time and time again he stressed the personal nature of his policies. He was autocratic in his behaviour.

Regarding Europe too he was autocratic. Apprehensive ministers would learn at the same time as the rest of the world at De Gaulles press conferences any change of French policies. In fact the veto of Britains entry into the EEC in 1962 was a purely personal decision (it did not enjoy the unanimous support of his ministers).

So we can see that it was De Gaulle imperious and imposing nature which expanded the role of the president. His Prime Ministers just executed his policies.

After De Gaulle came George Pompidou in 1969. He had claimed to limit the functions during his election campaign however once in power, the Gaullist legacy was kept alive and was infact strengthened. He not only appointed his prime minister, but dismissed him too. He had vetoed his prime ministers plans for regionalisation.

To the presidential domain he added financial industrial and economic matters since being an ex-banker he was interested in these issues.

In 1973 Valéry Giscard D'Estaing came to power. Having been finance minister under Pompidou he continued his interest in the financeal field. His finance minister was a personal as well as a political friend and hence was willing to execute D'Estaings wishes. However in 1976 Raymond Barre was appointed Finance Minister and he was not as accomodating. However D'Estaing putting pressure on him, showed him that presidential approval would be necessary on financeal matters.

D'Estaing added social and environmental issues to the presidential domain as well as including all the previous ones. He took a courageous and keen interest in social matters eg. He amended the 1st divorce bill sent to him by the Judiciary.

Mittérand was elected president in 1981. He did not relinquish the presidential powers that had been established over the years. However in 1986 the Socialist Party did not enjoy a majority in parliament and so Mittérand had to chose as his Prime minister the leader of the party holding the most seats. This was Chirac of the RPR and the period 1986 to 1988 saw the period of "Cohabitation". Mittérand was obliged to fall back to the powers of the president as defined in the constitution. This shows that the president can only enjoy supremacy when his party is in the majority in the parliament.

The occassional infringment and violation of the constitution causes little reaction from the French. The French have never had much respect for the prevailing constitution. In the USA it is a quasi-sacred text but in France it is not the foundation of a social system but merely the mecanism to make the system work. If it does not work it can be discarded. The past presidents have been able to exploit the public indifference to the constitution and with their strong imposing personality been able to assert presidential pre-eminence.


<ICLE-BR-SUR-0028.1>
After the debacle of the Fourth Republic when government and ministerial instability had led to a series of coalition governments whose power had been very limited due to the endless compromises of its constituent elements, there was a real need in France for a strong government base. Matters had come to a head in 1958 with the uprising and unrest in Algeria. De Gaulle had outlined his plans for the constitution in 1946 with his famous speech at Bayeux, but he had slipped back into the shadows of the Fourth Republic, annoyed at the lack of attention being payed to him by the French and the victorious allies who did not like his authoritarian style of leadership and negociation. By 1958, the country needed De Gaulle and the referendum passing the new constitution received an 85% 'yes' vote. This was in sharp contrast to the apathetic 53% vote on a 35% second turn out which had marked the start of the Fourth Republic. The new constitution of the Fifth Republic aimed to separate the legislative, executive and judiciary, with the powers of the executive not stemming from the executive. If there had been any doubt, which of course there had about exactly where the power lay, then De Gaulle by his very actions soon began to show who was in charge.

There are several bones of contention about the definition of the Presidents fonctions. Firstly article 16 grants the President special powers in times of national emergency. However there is no distinguishing criteria for what constitutes a national emergency. In 1961, De Gaulle used these special powers. The cause of the time of emergency according to De Gaulle was in Algeria but this was strigently debated at the time. It had been thought that De Gaulle was rather abusing these special powers.

Secondly, at the start of the Fifth Republic there had been doubt about how far the powers of the President were superior to parliament. In article 12, the President has the right to dissolve the "assemblée nationale" but again it is not blatantly clear under what circumstances. In the Fourth Republic, the President could not dissolve the "assemblée nationale" until the parliamentary session was two years old. When the "assemblée nationale" brought down the government in 1962 after the appointment of Pompidou as Prime Minister, De Gaulle dissolved the parliament. In a dispute between parliament and President, the President had shown who held the "trump card". Equally on 22nd May 1981, Mitterrand on becoming President dissolved the "assemblée nationale" so as to get a majority of "députés" in it to aid him with his new socialist policies. This was surprising and yet a tactic which worked well for Mitterrand. Beforehand, Mitterrand had been an ardent critic of the institutions of the 5th Republic, yet this act was seen as being more "Gaullian" than De Gaulle.

Thirdly comes the most contentious of all the Presidents powers. The ability to appoint and sack the Prime Minister. With the drawing up of the constitution of 1958, such a measure had been discussed, but rejected. When De Gaulle was asked on the matter in 1958, he indicated that the President could not sack his Prime Minister. Yet in 1962, Michel De Brey was sacked and replaced by Pompidou, a financier who was not even a politician. Article 8 of the constitution discusses the matter and although the word "nomme" is there, there is no mention of the word meaning to sack "renvoyer". In the Mitterrand presidency, he has changed his Prime Minister to signify a change of policy. In 1984, Mauroi was dropped in favour of Fabius. The constitution implies that Prime Ministers can only be changed with the fall of a government. In 1986 a very interesting situation arose with the loss of the Socialist majority in the assemblée nationale to the right who had a majority of 4 votes. Mitterrand appointed Chirac, the leader of the right wing coalition to the post of Prime Minister. This raised several questions on the spheres in which the President could operate. Beforehand, the Prime Minister had to bow to the authority of the President. It was his job to "get his hands dirty" in the words of Sartre and actually implement the policies evolving from the President. There had been disputes in this area before. In 1976, Chirac when Prime Minister to Giscard d'Estaing had resigned as he believed the President was interfering too much into his job. Giscard had been a finance minister and was very interested in this sphere. De Gaulle had very much concerned himself with foreign affairs. Pompidou when President in domestic matters. However with Chirac alongside him, Mitterrand saw his supreme authority infringed upon. Chirac accompanied him to important meetings and by raising the old "conseil inter-ministeriel", even managed to barr Mitterrand from some important ministerial meetings which took place at the Prime Ministers residence. However Mitterrand did what previous 5th Republic presidents had done. When criticism rained in on governmental policy, on the planned introduction of selection for higher education for instance, Mitterrand stepped back and used the Prime Minister as a shield. By disassociating from and criticising the government, Mitterrand took on the form of the "gardien de l'interêt national".

Fifthly there had been doubt about De Gaulle's use of article 11 in which the President can by-pass parliament and hold a referendum on a planned policy. De Gaulle did this in 1962 over the plans to have the President elected by universal suffrage. Under the 4th Republic, the 2 houses of parliament had voted for there President, under the 5th Republic, an electoral college of about 80 000 high official civil councillors had voted. The proposal was passed decisively by the people. Strictly De Gaulle had changed the constitution in an unconstitutional manner, but it did not really matter as he had the mandate of the people.

Other powers of the president such as the promulgation of laws, ability to appoint leading members of the armed and civil services (article 14), the right to pardon through article 17 and the right to send legislation back to parliament through article 10 clearly demonstrate the power of the President. The stability of the 5th Republic, which is now the second longest after the 3rd Republic proofs that despite ambiguities in the constitution, actions of the President have helped clarify the boundaries of his powers. The behaviour of Mitterrand when faced with "cohabitation" show the stability of the 5th Republic and its ability to overcome the severest of problems.



<ICLE-BR-SUR-0029.1>
Much of this ambiguity arose from the fact that the Constitution was a compromise between 'presidentialisme' and 'parlementarism'. The President was given the traditional powers of the Head of State as well as becoming the 'chef cérémoniale de l'Etat', a similar rôle to that of our Queen, and as well as becoming the Chief of the army.

He was given a lot of power through articles such as 8, 12 and 11 of the Constitution as he didn't need the 'contreseing' of the Prime Minister or other ministers responsible. It was with Article 8 that the main ambiguity arose. It gave the President the power to name the Prime Minister but it remained ambiguous whether he also had the power to sack him. De Gaulle used this to his favour and after appointing Michel Debré in 1958 he was forced to withdraw from this position in 1962. De Gaulle saw him as a good Prime Minister in war time but after the Algerian war he decided he no longer had any use and effectively sacked him. In choosing Georges Pompidou in his place de Gaulle illustrated also that the choice of Prime Minister was solely his. This interpretation of Article 8 was a cornerstone in the development of the President's power. In choosing initially Debré, de Gaulle set a precedent in that he created a 'domaine reservé" for the President in which the Prime Minister was not to interfere. The President was to deal with long term issues especially foreign and defence policies whereas the Prime Minister was to deal with the short term domestic issues. This autocratic and authoritarian rôle of the President evolved throughout the 5th Republic. Pompidou, after having been Prime Minsiter for six years carried on dealing with economic, domestic and financial policies.

Article 11 was not in itself so ambiguous. The President could put important decisions to the people by referendum. De Gaulle used it in 1961 to ask the French whether they thought the Algerians should decide their own future. In 1973 Pompidou used it to see whether there should have been an enlargement of the European Community as the British wanted to join under Heath. However, here Pompidou was able to use Article 11 for tactical reasons, to divide the opposition. It was also a good way to increase contact with the people outside of the normal methods.

Where the real ambiguity lay was in whether you could use Article 11 to revise the Constitution. There was a set procedure for constitutional revision under Article 89 but de Gaulle used Article 11 to introduce elections 'on suffrage universel direct'. Through his interpretation he could submit an idea to the people without having to put it to the Parliament first. By the elections of 1965 the President had therefore gained more power as a matter of interpretation. This procedure has never been used recently and is unlikely to be used again.

More ambiguity lies in Article 16 which purports to give wide-reaching powers to the President in a state of national emergency. It has also been used in 1961 following the 'putsch' of the Generals in Algeria. The President must consult the Prime Minister, the presidents of the two assemblies and the 'conseil constitutionnelle' beforehand but in 1961 they were not all in agreement that France was threatened. Nevertheless through this ambiguity de Gaulle was able to implement Article 16.

Although Article 21 says that the Prime Minister should 'divise l'action du Gouvernement' in practice, and again as a matter of interpretation, this has not been the case. It's the President who's the Head of the executive and under Article 9 he claims the 'Conseil des Ministres', fixes the order of the day and generally directs the policy. Through such ambiguity the President has again been able to receive larger powers and develope his rôle. When Giscard d'Estaing came to power in 1974 he was obliged to appoint Chirac as Prime Minister. Not being a gaullist and not being the leader of the largest party he often ignored Chirac and went straight to the ministers. With this and his interference in financial matters, Chirac resigned in 1976. Under Mitterand, advisors often had more power than ministers.

Through such ambiguity and interpretation the President has been able to assume wide powers. Uncontent with his Mitterand used interpretation and the fact that the Algerian war had traumatised the nation to assume more power. For example he refused to allow Parliament to sit in 1963. Mitterand realising he would lose his majority in the National Assembly at the next election used such powers to put men of his own choice in high positions. After being elected in 1981, since the National Assembly had been elected in 1975 and had a majority, he wanted a majority for the left and used Article 12 to dissolve it. The ambiguities such as in Article 34 and 37 over the way legislation is past also gave wide reaching powers to the President. All in all it is this ambiguous nature of the Constitution, resulting from the compromise it tried to make, that led to a great development in the rôle of the President in the 5th Republic mainly under the precedent set by Charles de Gaulle.













 









<ICLE-BR-SUR-0030.1>
Demography is the study of population and the effect that its general character has on a country's society and economy. Demographists claim that it is a major factor in considering the problems of that country's evolution - for example, it is thought that many of France's problems during the twentieth century have been caused by a premature decline in the birth rate in the nineteenth century, and the consequent ageing of the population.

At the beginning of the 19th century France had the largest population in Europe, after Russia, and was also a major world power. Since this time, both its power and population in relation to the rest of Europe, have been in steady decline. By the beginning of the first world war, France's population trailed far behind that of Germany, which was one reason why Germany felt confident of victory. During both World Wars France not only lost thousands of men, but the birth rate also dropped dramatically. During the economic crisis and depression between the wars, the birthrate was also low, because it was a time of gloom and pessimism, with little hope for the future, and so people couldn't afford large families.

The consequence of these factors was that by the end of the second world war, the adult population in France was greatly reduced. It was at this time that the birth rate suddenly increased, with the Babyboom. Between 1946 and 1964 the birth rate increased 20%. - this was due to decreasing infant mortality, the introduction of social security and familly benefits, a new optimism for the future, and an abandonning of former Malthusian attitudes, in favour of a more dynamic outlook. The birth rate had in fact, begun to increase before the end of the war, as people took on a care-free attitude, with little feeling of responsibility.

At the same time, the death rate was decreasing, due to advances in medicine, and living conditions. This meant that the number of old people was steadily increasing. So, after the war, there was a reduced number of adults, to look after, and produce goods for, a increased number of children and old people. This, and the need to build the economy, led to the influx of immigrant workers into France, with has in turn led to many of today's problems with immigrants.

During the fifties, the school system had to be adapted to provide for the Babyboom; by the end of the 60's, they had reached the Universities, which became overcrowded, and inadequate to meet the needs of the thousands of extra students. This was one of the direct causes of May '68, along with the fact that there was no guarantee of a job afterwards, with so many students competing together.

The Babyboom generation is now working and so the country is benefitting from the taxes which they are paying. But, at the same time, with an ever decreasing death rate, + ever increasing number of old people, the Treasury is having to pay vast sums in pensions, + care for the elderly. Since the end of the Babyboom, the birthrate has declined again, due to the legalisation of contraception + abortion, and the fact that many people see having less children as a way to better their standard of living. At present, the birth rate is around 13,6 ?/00 , while the death rate is about 9 ?/00 . This means that the base of the pyramid of ages is being eroded away. The consequences are that the population is becoming top heavy, with a smaller number of taxpayers having to provide for the pensions of a larger number of old people - this has been worsened by the lowering of the retirment age to 60. Furthermore, the strain on the taxpayers can only continue to get worse, unless this trend is reversed. This is why many French people now support a policy of encouraging people to have children to halt a greying population. The consequence for business is that it has had to adapt its production away from baby + children's products, to those required by the older generations, in particular medical suppplies. They are also having to pay more to their older workers, due to their age even though they don't produce any more than the decreasing number of young people do.









































<ICLE-BR-SUR-0031.1>
The French system of higher education has always been of a hierarchical nature and divided. It was so before mai '68, and despite attempts at reform, it has been determined to remain so. Before 1968, French universities were overcrowded (the number of students rose from 122,000 in 1936 to 612,000 in 1968), centralized and impersonal.

In response to the events of '68, the Faure reforms were drawn up. They abolished old universities as such, and gave them the opportunity to form themselves into 'unités d'enseignements et de recherche'. They formed their own councils, and could group themselves into new universities. These universities had their own councils made up of staff, teaching and non-teaching, and student delegates. They elected the President who fulfilled a similar role to that of the British universities' Vice-Chancellor. The Faure reforms gave the universities a framework within which to create a new system of university education and to create new personalities for themselves. These reforms dealt with the centralized and impersonal aspects. But the universities could not cope with their new powers. 

They reverted back to their interdepartmental wrangling, and when it came to joining together to form universities, the subjects dominated by the Left, suchas sociology, did not want to combine with those subjects dominated by more Right-wing professors. The apolitical sciences did not want to be 'contaminated' by the Left-wingers.

Within the new universities, the departments were out to protect their own positions and to protect their share of the global budget, so there was little tendency to create new inter-disciplinary courses as Faure had hoped.

The universities are very much out of touch with the needs of the outside world. Their DEUGs and licences were very much theoretical and literal and of no use in finding jobs in specialized industry. Many professors wanted to keep universities as 'la finalité culturelle'. Donot want interaction with patrons, etc. But this is necessary to make degrees more relevant to job requirements.

Also left wing departments resisted any attempt by State for reform. Refused to see such attempts as sincere or benevolent, always suspected state of ulterior motives. 

Gulf between universities and Grandes Ecoles slightly bridged by Instituts Universitaires de Technologie, but governments leave Grandes Ecoles to themselves as serve France well and were not infected by virus of '68.

Politicisation of struggle for reform. Measures brought in by Savary to reduce influence of professors in councils revoked by Right when returned to power.

Reaction against Devaquet projet was unfounded. It would have retained 'bac' as means of selection for entry but would have eased pressure on crowded universities.
















<ICLE-BR-SUR-0032.1>
At the beginning of the Fifth Republic, education reforms had not been implemented because of political instability, other priorities (notably the Second World War) and the notorious French concept of academic tradition and élitism.

The problems to be solved were that of modernization, democratization and secularization. At that time (1959) most children stayed at primary school, only 35% were progressing to secondary education (the sixième year). Berthoin was the first minister of education to address the problem of democratization. He tried to prolong school life for a large number of pupils by making education compulsory until the age of 16, abolishing the entrance examination to the 'sixième' and abandoning the 'classe de la fin des études', where children stayed at primary school until 14. He introduced the concept of orientation and observation, whereby a pupil could be directed towards the school mostly suited to his needs (the prestigious lycée and the College d'Enseignement Général), whilst trying to bring the two schools closer together. The lycée had always been the bastion of élitism, with its Napoleonic tradition.

In 1963 Fouchet created the College d'Enseignement Secondaire, a lower common secondary school, to try and encourage upward social mobility. Jean Capelle, a leading figure in the initiative had very much admired, and tried to emulate the English comprehensive schools. But in an article by Hain Gaziel, his efforts were a failure. The creation of 3 'filières' were basically a division between prospective lycée and C.E.G. students. The third stream was theoretically intended to push pupils to the upper two streams, but in practice transfer was difficult - only 1% managed it. It was dubbed the 'poubelle' of the system. These two reforms came at the time of a population expansion which demanded education of any kind and prevented proper reforms - giving away a little in order to conserve a great deal.

School pupils became disillusioned, seeing the school as an agent of social discrimination. The lycées were for the bourgeois, cadres supérieurs, while the chances of the children of an 'ouvrier' getting anywhere near higher education were remote. It seemed that equality of opportunity and high academic standards were incompatible.

The demonstrations of May 68 led to an era of dialogue between parents, teachers and government. The resulting Haby reforms brought about the 'tronc commun' in the C.E.S., where over 50% of pupils now attended. This type of 'école unique' had been demanded by idealists such as Compagnons de l'Université over 50 years before. It involved mixed ability teaching up to the age of 16, an attempt at ensuring that equality of opportunity was obtained. But schools found ways of streaming pupils, under pressure from the parents of abler children. When Beullac became minister in 1978, he was instructed not to apply the Haby laws too rigidly and there was discretion as to how far schools could stream their pupils. Haby had said that his reform involved 'the same opportunities in every satchel' but was criticised for subordinating education to the needs of the economy, producing a versatile but poorly qualified workforce and providing education on the level of the 'SMIC culturel'. Elitism was reintroduced as abler pupils were able to take German lessons.

Under the Socialists since 1981, the move to integrate private schools into the State system was dropped under public pressure and now 17% of pupils are members of that clique. Savary left office to be replace by Chevenement who advocated to return to the conservative values of discipline & hard work, while introducing modern, technological subjects. But still, government was trying to fit new reforms into the existing system and lycées remained virtuallly unchanged.

For the less privileged child, the outlook is still grim. He has a 43% chance of getting to higher education, as opposed to 80% for the child of a 'cadre supéreir'. In England, the chances of a working class child to progress is much higher, even in the élitist Oxbridge, 50% are non-public school. With the introduction of GCSE's, the social stigma of having CSE's rather than O levels is removed, and there is less pressure to continue to A levels. In France, there is no half-way house. The baccalauréat is all-important, a national obsession, with those who do not obtain it becoming 'zéros'. This segregation of 'bacheliers' and 'non-bacheliers' is likely to worsen as the Rocard government has stated its aim of 80% of pupils taking the bac. exam by the year 2000. Critics, including the magazine Paris Match, see this creating a 'ghetto du déseppoir' as those without the bac. will be discriminated against for the rest of his life. The chances are that the majority of the 20% of 'zéros' will be of lower social categories, children of 'ouvries' or 'salariés agricoles'. As it is, the percentage of these children having to repeat a year is 25% higher than those from better-off backgrounds.

Secondary school now involves 2 years of observation, 2 of orientation and then to the lycée d'Enseignement Generale or Lycée d'Enseignement Professionnelle (equivalent of an English Technological College). The 'brevets' gained at the L.E.P. do not gain as much admiration and prestige as they should, since the French are still bound by their academic tradition, high standards and élitism. Does this has to suffer at the expense of social equality?

In England, selection to higher education is a fact of life. If you follow the theory that the higher the social class, the better the A level grades - then social selection may be a problem. But the comprehensive system with streaming and special help for remedials means that this is less likely. In France, the bac. certificate is a ticket for university, without further selection. But the social discrimination has already taken place, with the likelihood of a 'lower class' pupil gaining the bac. much lower than that of his more privileged contemporary. The English system of course has its elitist elements, the public school causing much controversy and often giving a child a better chance to progress to higher education.

French has a history of elitism, since the time of Napoleon and is determined not to sacrifice its academic standards. But for the less privileged child, the education system is, according to Charles Vial, a 'cursus d'obstacles'. He has only a 6% chance of getting the prestigious C bac, if he is the child of a 'salarié agricole'. A balance must be struck. To keep standards high and to ensure equality of opportunity. Even when these children make it to university, they are 50% more likely to fail their D.E.U.G. than children higher up the social scale. This cannot be coincidence - maybe the French should look to the English comprehensive school, as Fouchet and Capelle tried to do in 1963, to try and find a compromise.






























<ICLE-BR-SUR-0033.1>

The Fifth Republic inherited the limitations and dissatisfaction of the Fourth. The education system needed immediate modernisation and democratization. The first reform which aimed at achieve these was the Berthoin reform which was issued by decree under de Gaulle's emergency powers with no opportunity for parliamentary debate.

Under this reform, the school-leaving age was raised to 16, thus ensuring a longer span of education. A cycle of observation of 2 years was introduced for pupils at the age of 11, the idea being that during these 2 years pupils' progress would be observed and at the end of the cycle each pupil would be guided by teachers into either the lycée or the CEG (collège d'enseignement général) as best suited the individual. Berthoin hoped this would reduce social discrimination since all pupils would follow the same syllabus. However, this cycle of observation took place in different institutions - the lycée, the CEG and the primary school - and little transfer of pupils actually took place (1% of pupils transferred to the lycée on average). In these institutions sylabuses were harmonized but this was inefficient and insufficient as far as equality of opportunity was concerned.

The Fouchet reforms of 1963 sought to relieve the continued dissatisfaction of the political Left, primary teachers and trade unions by improving on the Berthoin reforms. Fouchet tried to introduce a common middle school for all pupils - the CES - which would cover the 11 to 14 age span. It was to be formed by converting the junior classes of the lycée into separate units and by transforming the CEG's. At the end of the CES, entry to the lycée would be by the pupils carte scolaire not by exam. Lycée teachers feared a drop in standards, and middle class parents feared tougher competition for their children. Hence conversion was resisted - in the opinion of the Legrand report, the CES never actually came into existance. However the CES such as it was did provide for an increased equality for pupils but the biggest drawback was the streaming system - the 3 filières, of which filière number one had the bad teachers and was dominated by children of the middle class. This led to a continuation of social selection for the lycées and a further setback for democratization.

There was not great reform of secondary education after the events of May 1968 but by the early 70's it was realized that Fouchet's reforms of 1963 were still not good enough. In 1975 René Haby was appointed Minister of Education. He attempted to re-structure the system of education but in fact his reforms were fitted into the existing system. He renamed the CES "collège unique' and introduced 2 cycles. The first lasted 4 years. The first 2 years consisted of a common course for all pupils, designed to offer a minimum level of education (le SMIC culturel). Classes were to be of mixed ability, the only streaming would be by age. Weak pupils received extra tuition as did bright pupils - so the ones who suffered were those of average ability. Treating inequals equally did not work. The final 2 years of the first cycle contained a basic core of subjects and options were introduced. The 2nd cycle covered the final 3 years of secondary education. In the lycées générales, pupils studying for the bac took a common curriculum for 2 years and specialised in the final year. Options coming later would give pupils a longer time to develop their true potential, Haby thought. Technological subjects were introduced to modernize the syllabus. To conform to Giscard's notion of citizenship for an advanced industrial society, manual subjects became compulsory. Implementation of the reforms took time. Haby was replaced by Beullac who sought a closer alignment between the economy and education. From 1979 pupils were given probation periods in industry. This gave a positive face to the Haby reforms which had failed to democratize the system by offering equality of treatment.

Mitterrand came to power in 1981; Alain Savary was appointed Minister of education. He spent 18 months negotiation in order to achieve a plan for a united secular system of education. He reached a compromise which satisfied neither Left nor Right; after a massive Right wing demonstration in 1984 his Bill was withdrawn and he resigned.

He was replaced by Chevènement for whom equality of the system took second place to modernisation. He aimed at modernizing the system to bring French children into the new era of technology. French, maths and technological subjects were given top priority on the curriculum. He targeted the lycée and the baccalaureat in his plans:
	1) he wanted to achieve Lycée attendance of 80% of all 	  	 	   pupils by the year 2000
	2) renew humanities in the lycée
	3) give greater autonomy to the lycée
	4) restructure the bac into 8 series
	5) increase the number of bacheliers in the technological 	   field.
	  
However, time was against him and the Left lost its majority in 1986. René Monony erased these plans but following the demise of the loi Devaquet in November 1986, Chirac suspended all social reforms.

The constant attempts to introduce a comprehensive school on the English model have been frustrated by the centralised system of education. Reforms are made to fit into the existing structure where they meet firmly entrenched vested interests which oppose their implementation. Consequently the reforms are unsuccessful. The Lycées teachers have constantly feared a drop in standards and hence have opposed all attempts to convert their junior classes into a comprehensive middle school. The lycées exist as a kind of equivalent to English 6th form colleges with junior classes attatched. Despite the lack of entrance exam for the lycées, the French system ressembles that of the English pre-comprehensive system with its superior grammar schools and enferior secondary modern schools.

Options in France are chosen later in the hope that this will allow each pupil to develop his full potential. In England, options come earlier but it is not until "A" levels are reached that pupils really have to make an important decision (this is still earllier than French specialization for the bac).

Furthermore, the French education system is linked more closely with the economy than its English counterpart. In England, changes are made according to technological developments not economic ones.

There tends to be social differentiation in England between State schools and private fee-paying schools - the latter attracting middle class children. In France the difference is that social differentiation exists within the State system itself, hence the attempts to create a more comprehensive system to achieve democratization..

























































 
















