<ICLE-US-PRB-0001.1> 

Although tolerance of other cultures is a goal of many minority writers, there remains a hope in ethic literature that this tolerance as it is based on knowledge, will eventually lead to an acceptance of these different cultures, these different people. The understanding which is pursued by ethnic American writers seems to be the correct pathway from which harmony between cultures can be achieved, and it is easy to establish such a common ground from the insight gained by reading minority works of literature. Because the knowledge is conveyed in a familiar language, through a familiar medium of text, the reader is given time in which to accept his own misconceptions and to rearrange his own thoughts in order to more effectively deal with a world of many different cultures.

Even though the United States encompases people who speak a wide variety of languages, most commonly it is the English language which is spoken and, therefore, with which an American citizen feels most at ease. Most of the ethnic works of literature are, then, translated into English, and although some critics feel as though this distracts the reader from the true nature of the story, it is important that as many people as possible receive the messages the work contains. Instead of feeling challenged, even threatened by tackling a novel written in another language, the reader readily accepts the content of the work simply on its appearing not to be different from one he might have written himself. The readers may not have such an easy time dealing with the insights the works of ethnicity present, however his mind, opened initially through the use of a common language, will not discard the thoughts without regarding them in some new way. Although works such as Like Water for Chocolate were initially written in the author's native language, their cultural potency is certainly not lost in the translation. In the Joy Luck Club, the reader quickly notices the choppy English which the Chinese mothers speak, and Celie's black slang and strange inflections in The Color Purple serve to contribute to the reader's sense of participation in the action. Common textual language draws the reader and the writer together in the culturally enhanced action of the work. 

In his use of literature as a means of conveying his thoughts, the author again employs an important tool which enables his thoughts to reach the reader more clearly, more subtely. While reading a piece of literature, the audience is given more time to accept the knowledge with which it has been confronted. Each reader continues at his own pace and may handle the passages in his own way. Because it is a slower, more thought-provoking process than hearing the spoken word for instance, literature reaches the reader on his own particular level, in a way in which it does not reach any other. This slow process is especially important when a reader is dealing with the insights conveyed through a piece of ethnic literature, for the inherent knowledge or emotions with which the author writes the work may not be familiar to him. Literature provides the reader time to become familiar and comfortable with the author's message before moving on further into the next. Thus, such instances as Celie's incestuous relationship with her father, in The Color Purple and the mothers tragic lives The Joy Luck Club can be accepted slowly by the reader as pieces of cultural understanding are embedded in his mind.

Louise Erdrich explains in her interviews that she tries to write Native American Indian Literature in such a way that <*>, and it is with this ultimate goal of understanding and acceptance that many of the ethnic American literature is written. Although the ethnicity works themselves may not be familiar to the reader initially, the ways in which the knowledge is conveyed are very important to the successful transmition of their meanings. Common language and common mediums help to break the barriers of non-acceptance, opening the minds of the readers in such a way that he will never forget the knowledge he has gained.



















































<ICLE-US-PRB-0002.1> 

Our country has been coined a "melting-pot" inferring that we all come from different that we all come from different background but have joined or melted together to produce homogeneous Americans. But a persons heritage, as we are realizing, is important to their sense of self and community. Ethnic American cultures have been reviving and trying to reestablish roots that were once lopped off to a model U.S. citizen. The differences they are rediscovering only add more color, flavor and excitement to that brewing "pot" of our people. However, some individuals and even groups of Americans are reacting negatively to this ethnic explosion (seen most clearly through the arts). They don't want to accept these differences. They choose to remain indifferent to the plights of their fellow Americans. As Ellie Weisel, author of such books as Night says about indifference: it is the opposite of everything good. The opposite of love, beauty, intelligence, light, joy, life and growth are not their familiar ontonyms but indifference. Ethnic American literature tries to fight this indifference by vividly & uniquely expressing certain aspects of different American culture.

The gamut of ethnic American literature is without bounds. Each group has its own peculiarities and attributes that make it's writing unique. In many cases the words used in ethnic American literature reflect a knowledge of a different "mother tongue". For instance, Native Americans poetry is more expressive and visual partly because their language is deeply rooted in the observation of the natural environment. Chinese American Literature is philisophical/literal because their native language is so. African American literature is often melodious and rhythmic mirroring their similar achievements in Jazzy and Blues music. All these examples (and more) give us some insight to other cultures we would otherwise never know. 

The stories told in this genre of literature, however, are likely the most important aspect of Ethnic American literature. It is through the experiences of the characters that we learn about the different cultures in the United States. When we learn of the trials and hardships that they went through we can sympethize with their emotions and try to accept that diversity. The stories of black American slaves and of concentration camp victems are necessary to avoid indifference. Without learning about the past (and present) horrors there is no way to ensure future humanity.

Ethnic American literature benefits U.S. citizens in many ways. It opens our eyes to the reality of the suffering of others. It gives us a fresh & new perspective on the world around us. It helps us to understand our personal relationships better. Most of all, it gives us more common ground on which to live, and grow, and prosper. Hopefully we will someday fulfill Elie Weisel's goal and end indifference; this literature is a step in the right direction towards acceptance in the diversity of our country.

Different is beautiful!







<ICLE-US-PRB-0003.1>


The strength of ethnic American literature lies in the use of a protagonist whose experiences in society exemplify the successes and failures of an entire ethnic group within society. The protagonist is singled out among the characters of the ethnic literature to convey the purpose of the author's work. Ethnic American literature implies that the ethnic protagonist's search for an identity within a society is not to set him apart from his culture selfishlessly, but to achieve, excell, and contribute to the culture of which he is associated. The protagonist is confused as to his role within society, but searches for that identity and role for the benefit of the many.

The protagonist is challenged by society to prove his value as an existing member. In that challenge, the character is faced with an examination of his or her role within the society. Celie, the protagonist of The Color Purple, must find inner strength to overcome the hardship placed on her by the male society. The desired result of the character's quest is not material wealth or spontaneous gratification, but a freedom to make a difference. Elie Wiesel pointed out that his autobiographical work Night was written to present a detailed account of the Jewish experience in the Nazi concentration camps, not to promote his own achievement in surviving. The important issue to examine in a protagonist's journey against society is the deference of gratification to the entire culture. The search for identity is based on the quest to break away from the social injustice to find self-worth.

In breaking away from the social wrong, the ethnic protagonist works to apply the inner strength gained from the experience to a direction with a culture that proves he or she can contribute positively. Tita's quest for freedom and identity in Like Water for Chocolate create culinary masterpieces, beneficial to the entire family. She found strength in the cooking, proving that the essence of the protagonist is developed through the challenges faced by the protagonist. The desire to be set apart is not to be isolated, but to make a difference. It is a form of escape that is unattainable by the inexperienced character. Celie's escape from her husband brought out a creative strength in her which she converted to personal gain, and an ability to give back to those who had cared for her welfare, such as Shug Awery. The only selfishness could be found in the protagonist's working for the benefit of their entire culture.

The culture in which they are members is collectively experiencing the same wrongs and injustices he or she is, but the authors of ethnic American literature single out a protagonist's view to show the uniqueness of human experience. In the course of American literature, the achievements of the individual are praised for their contribution to society, not as a part of the journey towards identity an self-worth. On the other hand, ethnic protagonists are fighting against the white culture and, at the same time, are fighting against the challenges of their own people. Therefore, the achievements of the minorities are symbolic of an intense struggle brought about by the social structure.

The quest of women within the ethnic literature can hardly be considered selfish, for they are struggling not only for their own freedom and justice, but for the freedom and justice of and for all women. The ethnic American authors place the women in demeaning and challenging situation to prove that their success has and will come at a higher price than a white character conquering a wild animal. The selfishness is found in the personal gain, but its termination is found in the use of personal gain for the benefit of others.

In examining ethnic American literature, the most important question to ask is "What is the protagonist trying to accomplish?" The answer is what separates the ethnic American literature apart from the typical American literature. The reader must realize the significance of the protagonist's search for identity: improved culture over personal selfishness.
















































<ICLE-US-PRB-0004.1>



In Ralph Ellison's The Invisible Man, he urges African Americans to <*>. Phillis Wheathey also tells African Americans to get on that "angelic train". These ethnic American writers are encouraging ethnic Americans to join and to accept the white people's America. However, the white people many times do not accept them; at best they tolerate other ethnicities. Maxime Hong Kingston points out in "Reparation Candy" that the drug store clerk just gave us candy because he thought we were beggars. The clerk does not know the candy is supposed to be to stop the curse of the bringing of the medicine to the wrong house. The clerk displays tolerance. Barbara Rice Cleary explains, <*>. All Americans need to be accepting of other cultures. It seems true that as Barbara Rice also points out: <*>. 

Reading ethnic American literature helps us to see the harm of nonacceptance. The negro spirituals clearly point out the African Americans' desire to move to a better place. One says <*>. The African Americans sing about their desire to leave this place that does not accept them. They want to go home where they are accepted. Martin Luther King also expresses the necessity of changing the non-accepting attitudes. He says <*>. He desires for all Americans to accept each other as brother and sister. Ozzie in Roth's "The Conversion of the Jews" also pleas for acceptance when he cries <*>. He does not want his mother to count the names of only the Jews who had died. He desires for all the deaths to be mourned. June in Amy Tan's The Joy Luck Club also cries out for acceptance. She tires of her mother's endless tests to make June into a "prodigy". June wants to be accepted as who she is. In her struggle for acceptance, June even tries to deny that part of her is Chinese. Fortunately, she realizes that it is in her blood and she cannot forget she is Chinese. Nonacceptance is harmful. 

The history of ethnic Americans helps form ethnic Americans' beliefs and ideas. We cannot only tolerate their different ideas if we desire to live in cooperation with each other. Reading ethnic American literature can help us to understand the different ways they may think. As June mother, Suyvan, points out <*> is not bad. Suyvan shows June that June has a heart. the reader can understand better the dislike of whites by blacks after reading Martin Luther King and Alice Walker. Martin Luther King describes the pain of not being able to go to Funtown because it is closed to coloreds, and he explains the dehumanizing effects of being called boy. Alice Walker's Sofia explains her ungratefulness to the white woman. She is only allowed to see her children for five minutes. she is still a slave. All Americans need to understand the struggles of ethnic Americans.

Tolerance is not enough. Tolerance denies understanding. Tolerance ignores the ethnic American experience. We must be willing to accept other peoples ideas and beliefs about things. Understanding, which can come through reading ethnic literature, is the first step in acceptance.








<ICLE-US-PRB-0005.1>

I firmly believe that naturalism is one of the most prominent ideas presented by writers of ethnic American literature. To an extent, I think that characters in all of the works covered over the semester are victims of forces inside and outside themselves. It is usualy only through force-of-will that characters break free from the circumstances of their naturalistic lines.

As is necessary for a literature to be considerred "ethnic", a seperate culture must be delt with. And aspects of these different cultures have different naturalistic implications. Take, for instance, the Chippewa tribal and religious structures that define the conflicts of the characters in Erdrich's Love Medicine. The effects of these conflicting elements have devious effects on the confused lives of Nectar, Marie, Albertine, Henry Jr, and June. Each of these characters battles against the naturalistic effects of white versus Native American thinking. should they form a tribal family, or a nuclear one? should they worship God, or Gods? And do they respect the government, or themselves? Each of these questions is representative of naturalistic battles going on in the character's lives. The same can be said for the characters in Philip Roth's works. A recurring theme faced by many of the characters is how to exist in the modern world and still retain the beliefs and discipline of the Jewish faith. These conflicts arise simply from the fact that these people were born Jewish, a situation that has great influence but is clearly beyond their control.

Women, in particular, find it difficult to accept the stereotypical roles assigned to them, and I can hardly blame them. I can see no reason why Celie should find contentment in cooking and cleaning for M.- jus so he can reward her by beating her some  more. Should Tita be happy? I find no cause for rejoicing in the fact that she is not allowed to marry and must watch her true love marry her sister in order to service the selfish needs of Moma Elena. How can we expect the women of the Joy Luck Club to overcome the centuries of strictly adhered-to traditions of female subsurvience, to defy a nation? clearly, we can not. Part of what make these works great is how the characters overcome the naturalism that has thus-far dominated their lives.
  
I believe that the greatest impact that naturalism has in the works we have read is in the way that the various characters overcome the naturalistic influences in their lives. celie, with the help of Slug Avery, refuses to continualy lay still while Mr. - has his way with her, physically and emotionally. Julia's love for life overcomes the intense influences of a culture "based on monogamy, that is placed on her. The members of the Joy Luck club are victorious over tradition and find their way to the United States, and new lives. Tita defeats her mother in body and spirit, and is finally allowed the release the passion that she had been holding in for decades. Violet and Joe cope with the tragedies of their past and present, and are somehow able to go on. Marco defends the faith against Grossbart, even though it could mean death. A boy on a rooftop defies the authority of tradition, possibly only in his mind. Eli refuses the naturalistic influences to conform to protestant society. And Epstein does the unforgivable, only to then be forgiven. Each of these characters find their personal strength in the defiance of naturalism. So I say, yes, naturalism is a prominent idea of ethnic American literature. It is not, however, the existance of naturalism that makes these works great, but the fighting against it.




<ICLE-US-PRB-0006.1>

By studying ethnic American literature, one discovers that the different ethnic cultures of the world aren't as different as one might have expected them to be. For example, in Walker's The Color Purple, the characters attend church regularly as almost anyone else in todays society. They also encouter racism, domestic violence, poverty, war, etc. Like the characters of The Color Purple, the characters of Tang's The Joy Luck Club also possess similar characteristics and encounter similar situations: war, discrimination, poverty, war, etc. These characters also feel the need to create a special bond amongst its members in order to preserve and uphold their culture. These are all universal characteristics that every culture possess. According to Stuart Hirschberg, <*>. I agree with Hirschberg's remarks. Reading about only one's culture is very eckusive, for one's only reading what one has always been brought up to know about oneself. However, as one ventures the life experiences and identities of others, one can relate these to one's own experiences and identities, thereby broadening one's own knowledge about oneself. 

One's knowledge about oneself is broadened by venturing the life experiences of different cultural backgrounds. By reading The Color Purple one sees that the Character a great deal of racism. For example, Sophia is brutally beaten and put in prison for refusing to become the maid of the mayors wife. Although she does slap the mayor, he hits her also but wasn't beaten or put in jail. Also, sees that blacks who went into the stores weren't attended to with proper care. Also, in Weisel's Night the Jews are exclusively evacuated from their land and dehumanized by the Germans simply for being Jews. The characters also experience war: the Mexican war takes place in Like Water for Chocolate; the war of the English takes place in The Color Purple; the Japanese-Chinese War takes place in The Joy Luck Club, etc. Domestic abuse is also depicted in these novels, as well as the unity and togetherness of the characters. Although the are many different cultures depicted in these novels, the experiences of the characters and experiences that the world can relate to.

One's knowledge about one can also be broadened by venturing to identities of different cultures. One can identify with Celie's thinking of God being a <*>, for society has always presented this image of God. One can also identify with these characters bonding with one another in order to gain the acceptance that they don't usually and honestly get from society.











<ICLE-US-PRB-0007.1>

lost


<ICLE-US-PRB-0008.1>

The national motto is <*>, and the ethnic American literature preaches that <*>. These two mottos seem two conflict but they do not. Both are true but the second one has to be embraced and understood before the first motto can become a reality. In America, there are real characteristics that are unique to each race that every American needs to come to understand an accept. Ethnic American literature is bridge that all American can use to help them come to an understanding and acceptance of people of other backgrounds. If oneday America as a whole is enlightened in this manner, then we can honestly say our national motto is "from the many, one!" Ethnic American lit. can help us accomplish this goal because it helps us to understand.

Ethnic American Literature will help each group of people understand what the other group of people has gone through. Every single ethnic group has suffered a great amount in their attempt to gain equality. That suffering they have gone through has left many wounds that have not totally healed. Knowing why those wounds are there help to clearify why people do the thing that they do today. Ethnic American literature explains why those wounds are there and usually the literature presents to the people a way to overcome the wounds. For example, in Amy Tan's The Joy Luck Club the Chinese American daughters have a tough time understanding themselves because they are caught between two cultures that clash in values. The girls are the victims of the clash because they do not know which culture to follow. The Chinese culture gives them no choices, and the American culture gives them too many choices. Consequently, the girls are lost and do not know who they are. Ian advises that they should listen to their mothers. When the girls listen to their mothers they find out who they are. From reading this book, I have become more sympathetic to the Chinese-American's dilemna.

Not only does ethnic American literature help the different groups of people understand each other, the race of people that the literature is addressed to understands its own race better. As often people do not understand why they are the way they are, for a group of people understanding why they are in the situation they are in is even more difficult to understand. Literature addressed to a group of people can clarify to that group what it is they are suffering from and why they are angry; For example, racism can be very subtle, almost subconsious. People may not be aware that they are victims and are angry about it. The literature can explain to them why they are angry and comfort them; saying feeling the way they do is perfectly natural. Jazz by Toni Morrison operates on this level. It shows people who are victims of racism and are angry people because of the way they have been treated, people like Doreas. She is very angry subconsciously and is very violent consequently; Through understanding Doreas, African-Americans can understand themselves better.

Not only does the literature help the group understand itself better, but the literature helps the other groups understand themselves better also. From African-American literature for example Caucasasians can better understand from the African-American perspective what the exact repercussions were of the acts of racism conmitted by the Caucasians. Caucasians can better understand how they are perceived. From these understandings the Caucasian can learn and hopefully change. The same idea is true with the Caucasians dealings with the American-Indian race. From Ethnic American literature everyone can gain a better understanding of the situation in front of us as a nation. When we all start to understand each other and our ounselves than we can start to move forward and become "Out of the many, one."























































<ICLE-US-PRB-0009.1>

Ethnic American literature is an integral if not necessary part of American society today. Not only does it paint a colorful picture of the many people that share this country, it also shows us the many different aspects of the cultures around the world. Ethnic American literature ultimately opens our eyes to what is around us. Therefore, as a direct answer to the question <*>, I concur. Not only should we study it it should be given as an entirely seperate discipline. Joseph Zaitchik, editor of Face to Face, 1994, states that <*>. However my question is how will we learn about cultures in America if close our eyes to the violence, conflict, or confrontation? All literature should bring us closer to our surroundings.

Although there is some violence in ethnic American literature it should not be the only focus, because some classics contain violence and that was somehow overlooked. The themes that ethnic American literature focuses on are hope, cultural traditions, and the struggles of the characters which is common in most works. For example, Alice Walker's The Color Purple is brutally violent, but under the surface one notices and finds that Celie struggles to survive as a woman, a wife, and a mother but ultimately struggles to survive as an individual. We learn about the ways of African-American culture; we denounce it at first, then we learn to accept it and finally we understand it. The same is true for Toni Morisson's novel Jazz. Although it takes place in the heart of Harlem and violence is predominant occurance, the reader looks deeper and finds a stimulating story about lost love, inner city conflicts and again the struggles of survival. Many ethnic American writers, use violence in their novels as a way to emphasize their points. One great example is Esquivel's novel Like Water for Chocolate. The novel is filled with magic-making, the violence or love scenes spectacular. Therefore it diminishes the violence and the reader focuses on the true themes of the novel.

Zaitchik argues that <*>. If we miss out on works like The Color Purple, Jazz, African-American spirituals, Jewish literature about the holocaust, and many more works from ethnic authors, then we are limiting ourselves from wonderful worlds. We should not avoid literature with violence simply because it is violent. Works like Amy Tan's The Joy Luck Club hardly has any violence. The only violence comes from the stories told by the mothers. For example, Suyuan Woo tells her story about leaving her babies behind during the Japanese invasion, Ying-Ying St Clair kills her new born son to spite her abusive husband, Rose's grandmother comits suicide so her daughter can learn to have her own voice and An-Mei lies about the nightmare she had in order to get away from a disasterous situation. These stories are from China and are essential to the novel. Only from the mothers' stories can we understand the types of relationships they have with their daughters. Therefore violence, to some degree, is necessary.

Ethnic American Literature is an important part of American society. Many lessons about the cultures within the United States can be learned. I believe that we should not shun it because it contains violence as Zaitchik argues. I believe we should embrace it and let it become a part of our discipline in schools. Novels like Jazz, The Color Purple or Like Water for Chocolate can in no way "encourage violence". I believe such works were written for other reasons and that the violence in them is a minor element that contributes greatly to each work.  


<ICLE-US-PRB-0010.1>


The central quest for the ethnic protagonist is to answer "Who Am I?" as their centre quest should be. The quest of finding out who one is is the quest that all individuals must embark before they can truly embark on any others. We all must attempt to understand the self as children of God so we can operate harmoniously with each other and so we can know our own purposes and know in what specific way each of us was meant to give back. To say writing about this topic is selfish is to show a great lack of understaning of human nature. The writers of ethnicity that have written on the subject of "Who am I?" have been anything but selfish. They have given a great gift to the people of their own background, as well as and maybe even a greater gift to the rest of humanity.

The Ethnic American Authors' addressing of the issue of self understanding is hugely important because of the adverse circumstances that all American of ethnic backgrounds are subjected to. For example, in Alice Walker's The Color Purple Celie, because she is black, is born with an inferiority complex. She is born into society that is trying to crush her and any self-respect she might have because she is black, and female. She is thought of as and treated as nothing. Therefore she naturally thinks of herself as nothing. Walker shows African Americans that they must find a self-understanding that is void of the standards that were and are imposed upon them by the white race. Because of the situation the African-Americans have been subjected to self-growth and understanding among the people may have been stunted. For Alice Walker to address this issue is anything but selfish. 

The Ethnic-American writers make important contributions not only to their own race but just as importantly, to the human race. Their writing is such a gift because of reasons two-fold. Firstly, what they have to write about not only applies to their own people but to people everywhere. Despite having different backgroun we are all subjected to the human condition. We are not as different as some people would like to believe. I have learned much about myself and about how life is for people in general out their. I have learned a great amount about the human condition. I have learned about love, sex, self-respect, and what being a friend really means.

The second reason the Ethnic American literature has been such an important gift is it's helping people of one race understand another. It has helped people everywhere become more fully human, able to empathize with their fellow human beings. Through the American literature I have come to a much greater understanding of people of all the races. Through The Joy Luck Club I have come to understand the plight of being caught between two polar  cultures such as China an the U.S.A. On Jazz and The Color Purple the difficulties African Americans have had to deal with have helped me to understand them better. Because of these literary works I have come to understand the people that are of different background than me much better. Only when we start to understand people can we really begin to love them. These writers I have talked about have done something God-sent. They have helped people to be in harmony with each other. No I do not think these writers are selfish.




<ICLE-US-PRB-0011.1>

The American Heritage dictionary defines culture as <*>. The transmission of culture is a very important aspect of ethnic American literature. Many ethnic American writers show the importance of transmitting culture or tradition from generation to generation perhaps to uphold the customs and traditions of their native country.

Many of the novels we have read this semester show this aspect of transmitting culture. For example, the predominant novel to show this is Amy Tan's The Joy Luck Club. The mothers want to desperately hold on to the old ways of China and try to raise their daughters "the Chinese way". They tell their daughters stories of China and basically try to tell them about the people they are. Where they came from, who they are, and why they act the way they do about certain issues. The daughters find this hard to understand because they have been Americanized. By the end of the novel all the daughters understand their foreign mothers and learn to accept their traditions - the doors for transmition of culture have been opened. Amy Tan's novel ends with this important aspect of ethnic literature. Another novel that shows transmition of culture is Walker's The Color Purple. Celie's sister Nettie goes off to Africa as a missionary. Once there she tries to transmit African-American culture to the natives. And finally Mama Elena tries to transmit culture to Tita and her other daughters in Esquivel's Like Water for Chocolate. Mama Elena fails miserably with Tita and Gertrudes but manages to influence Rosaura with the old ways.

All of these authors and many more ethnic writers, i.e. Jewish Renaissance writers and American-Indian oratory try to show the aspect of transmitting culture from generation to generation. The most obvious of these are the African-American spirituals. They have lasted for decades and continue to prevail in African-American society. They have proven that culture can be transmitted from generation to generation for nearly 200 years. American-Indian oratory is also proof of passing tradition down the generations. Their poetry and stories (or myths) have been written down and can be enjoyed by anyone. American-Indians as well as African-Americans still hold these poems/stories and spirituals as sacred. Authors from the Jewish Renaissance have also succeeded in transmitting culture. Most Jewish writing is about the holocaust or about Israel. American-Jewish writing is about the struggle of Jews living in the United States and the hardships they go through to hold on to their sacred traditions. The transmition of culture is prevalent in most ethnic literature. 

The transmission or passing down of culture from generation to generation is clearly an essential aspect or ingredient in ethnic American Literature. It is important to know who you are and were you came from and for those that don't know, literature of this sort is an immense help. I believe that the aspect of ethnicity is clearly portrayed in ethnic literature. The Joy Luck Club, spirituals, oratory, and Like Water for Chocolate clearly show how important tradition or culture should be passed down. It is up to the receiving generations whether they will accept or reject it.








<ICLE-US-PRB-0012.1>

In many of the minority works of modern literature, there can be some emphasis on rebellion against oppressive forces. Although such a show of strength by these works' characters is sometimes viewed as a violent and therefore negative contribution to the otherwise insightful thought of the author, it is this conflict upon which many stories of ethnic American literature are based. However, such a rebellion cannot be seen clearly in each minority work, and, therefore, the products of ethnic American literature cannot be catagorized as merely the result of years of oppression. Rather, this ever-changing and ever-challenging aspect of minority literature creates an especially important necessity that each work be considered individually as both a product of years of struggle and a work inherently distinct from any other.

In the minority works, the conflict and rebellion presented accurately reflects society as a whole, and although the mother's in The Joy Luck Club rebel against such forces as arranged marriages, Tita in Like Water for Chocolate fights to overcome old family traditions, and the Indian tribes in Love Medicine struggle to secure their inherent rights from the US government, the characters' conflicts reflect similar conflicts of other cultures. Rebellion is seen not as a distinct force in minority cultures, but rather as a binding force between all cultures, for Celie, too, resists her arranged marriage in The Color Purple, and the murderous loves in Jazz reflect Tita and Pedro's destructive passion in Like Water for Chocolate. Rebellion and conflict are emphasized in ethnic American literature, but they are portrayed no more strongly in minority works than they are portrayed in other pieces of literature. Emphasis changes with each work, and although figures of authority are particullary oppressive in works such as Like Water for Chocolate and The Color Purple, other minority works including Love Medicine and Jazz do not reflect the clearly defined authoritarian figures nor the obvious rebellion of the characters' responsive action which the previously mentioned works show. This again implies that these etnic American pieces of literature cannot be catagorized as merely rebellious responses to oppression, but as individual reflections of personal and cultural experiences.






















<ICLE-US-PRB-0013.1>

Some of ethnic American Literature confronts violence which leads critics to hesitate in accepting this genre into public curriculum. Unfortunately, many ethnic American cultures are segregated from mainstream society into unsafe urban slums and face a more dangerous way of life. By reading the literature that deals with the violence of ethnic American cultures, one gains a new perspective on life in our country. It is important to understand the lifestyles and struggles of our fellow man especially of those in our own "backyards". People like Joseph Zaitchik respond to this condition of ethnic American literature by saying <*>. I wholeheartedly disaggree. Reading about violence, whether fiction or real, does not make one more violent. It encourages the learning process and allows the reader to experience the emotions involved without actually experiencing the action. Though violence is not a easy topic to face up to, it is one that the United States needs to confront.

Statistics show that ethnic American cultures (such as African American, Native American, and Latin American) have higher rates of crime, homicide, alcohol abuse, and domestic violence than non-ethnic groups. Violence then, is a part of their everyday lives. For what ever reasons, these American cultures face a difficult reality which some feel the need to express through writing.

Most ethnic American writers are from the situations they write about; they've experienced the violence first-hand and want to pass it on to their readers. Sometimes they need to write just to express their pain or unsure feelings, though, more often, their purpose is to teach a lesson. They use violence from realistic situations to make others aware of the problems in ethnic American cultures. This is necessary in the effort to change current conditions of our fellow man - we will not change what we do not car about and we will not care about what we do not understand.

Worrying about the violence in literature in comparrison to the violence in visual media (T.V., movies) only desensitizes us. It is this separation from reality that we experience by watching violence that is potentially dangerous, and may encourage violent acts. Literature on the other hand is an age-old medium of progress and education. In order to understand each other, sympathize and grow as a nation, we must take special attention to the lives of those around us. We should not be frightened of the difficult topics such as violence and let that stand in the way of our unity & brotherhood.
















<ICLE-US-PRB-0014.1>

Consistently through the course of studying American literature, we are bombarded with the entire scope of the traditional white male experience. But with ethnic American literature, we are able to examine and be witness to an entirely contradictory and sometimes derogatory view of American society. The traditions and cultures portrayed in ethnic American literature provide the reader with an opportunity to explore emotional and social experiences of ethnic characters with the turn of a page. These characters provide a foil by which the reader can modify, adapt or reexamine the lifestyle or beliefs which he or she currently holds. 

The power of ethnic American literature comes from the authors' abilities to provide vivid detail of the psychological nature of non-traditional, minority characters. Generally, the authors do not withhold the intense emotions experienced by the characters; this graphic and realistic font provides us with an unbiased view of emotions that we thought were unique to our white culture. Love, passion, and hate are portrayed as emotions so powerful that they can drive entire cultures to unite, and at the same time, can torment even the lowest soul. This frankness and use of strong emotions provides us with a base on which we can reexamine our own feelings towards these emotions. Unlocking a hidden passion in a character can be as traumatic as a murder in our society, but this powerful emotion exudes strength and power in ethnic American literature. We are captivated by the characters' willingness to break out or release emotion because of the social norms placed on our white American society. We find new meanings to these emotions because they provide a way for us to escape from social expectations. We are able to improve our character from the experimentation of these ethnic American characters.

The events and traditions of our culture are easily revised when experienced through the eyes of the minority literature. The treatment of the Native Americans is seen as necessary in most people's eyes, but in the reading of Louise Erdrich's Love Medicine we see the society in which Native American reside and it makes reevaluate our understanding. In these writings we are able to see the effects of a white society on minorities and this provides us with an opportunity to make a change. The graphic nature of the works show us how society exists outside of our own small worlds. In most cases, the works teach us that we should be thankful for all we have for ourselves, and more importantly, how we should alter our current practices.

Most Americans cautiously tread through life without experiencing all the world and its people has to offer. The experiences of the ethnic characters show us how to take chances, for in their experiences, the worst that can happen is death, and that is generally considered better. We can learn that there is not time like the present when approaching everyday life. We see how other ethnic groups react to certain situations and we are able to learn and adapt.

Most importantly, ethnic American literature teaches tolerance and compassion for others. We are shown how different everyone is in the world, and this allows use to change or review our opinion of others. The provocative nature of ethnic American literature should shock the common reader into reading; one cannot help but to learn from the experience.



<ICLE-US-PRB-0015.1>

Michael Novak argues in The Rediscovery of Ethnicity that Americans should shun a literature which is divisive. He contends that ethnic American literature is a divisive literature. It is true that in Martin Luther King Jr's "Letter from Birmingham Jail", King argues for direct action against the white people's oppression. In Jazz, Toni Morrison retells the story of a violent death. But the assumption that reading this type of literature will bring discord is incorrect. Reading about the struggles in the lives of ethnic Americans should not bring strife. Instead, ethnic American literature allows us to see the struggles and triumphs of our ethnic brothers and sisters. Ethnic American literature is an invitation to join in the lives of people who have experienced a different culture. We need to experience their pain and learn how they dealt with the struggle before we can truly fulfill our national motto: <*>. 

Americans cannot ignore the struggles of ethnic Americans. Ethnic American literature allows us to experience and to relate to these struggles. In Alice Walker's The Color Purple, the reader feels Celie's pain when she is raped and beaten as a child. As Celie grows older and feels oppressed by Albert, the reader can also feel the oppression. Similarly, the reader, by reading and experiencing Tita's abused life in Laura Esquivel's Like Water for Chocolate, can understand Tita's confusion when Tita sees her hands for the first time. Tita had always been told what to do by Mama Elena. When Tita is free from Mama Elena's grasp, she looks at her hands in amazement, wondering what to do with them . Americans cannot ignore the oppressive life that had been forced upon many ethnic American women. Martin Luther King also refuses to allow Americans to forget the struggle of Black Americans. He reminds his readers of the tears in the little black girl's eyes when she is told Funtown is closed to coloreds. He notes the degradation caused by the white people's calling black men boys and refusing to show any respect to black women. We must also remember the struggles of Asian Americans. Amy Tan relates the hardship of the Chinese Americans to her readers. The reader is made to feel the pain of Suyuan when she is forced to leave her two baby daughters while trying to escape the war. The reader can also understand the frustration An-nei has because Rose refuses to shout. An-mei remembers that her mother had died to give her a strong spirit. She must pass this spirit on to her daughter.

Only by understanding the the struggles and hardships of our ethnic American brothers and sisters can be begin to breakdown the divisions caused by such things as the "Myth of the Matriarchy" as explained by Gloria Maylor or the power of the word "Nigger" as described by Gloria Maylor and Countee Cullen. Once we understand ethnic American Struggles, then we can understand their responses. Ethnic American literature helps other Americans to understand why Celie and other black women must fight and why An-nei along with other Chinese women must teach her daughter Rose to shout. By reading about ethnic Americans' struggles we can understand Martin Luther King's necessity to be an extremest for love like Jesus, Paul, Amos, and Thomas Jefferson. We can understand why Martin Luther King can no longer "wait". He forces the reader to admit that justice delayed is justice denied. The reader also understands the inner needs of ethnic Americans. By relating to the reader her story of forced marriage, Amy Tan's Lindo helps the reader to understand her need to "never forget herself". The reader also understands Tita's need to be her own person and fight for her love. Tita is a fine woman who can do what she wants with her life and cannot be bound to oppressive traditions. Only by understanding ethnic American struggles and responses to their struggles can other American fulfill the dream, as Reverend Martin Luther King explained that children of all colors and all races could live together in peace. Accepting everyone as a brother or sister fulfills our national motto: <*>.




   






















   


























<ICLE-US-PRB-0016.1>

Due to the absurdity of the first three questions on this exam, I chose to tackle the most offensive of the three in which we are asked if ethnic literature encourages violence. In dismantling Zaitchik's statements, I will explain how his sweeping generalizations and gross overstatements in fact defeat his own ridiculous argument. I will then prove, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that instead of encouraging violence, ethnic American literature promotes tolerance. To put my argument simply, I strongly disagree.

In the first sentance of the statement by Zaitchik, he says that <*>. I might rightly make the same statement about the comic strip in the Sunday edition of the Clinton Chronicle and be just as correct. Such a general statement by Zaitchik is obviously being used to single out the "classics" as being superior in style and content to ethnic American literature. What Zaitchik does not seem to realize is that because the "classics" were written and selected primarily by white European males, they are just as ethno-centric as any of the works that we have read this semester. As far as being "guides to a better life", I think that I would be hard pressed to find anyone that does not wish that they had the inner strength of Tita or Celie, the integrity of Marie Lazare, the loyalty to culture of Marso, the tolerance of Violet, the wisdom of Eli, Nectar, or Zulu, or the reverance for life found in all of the original members of the Joy Luck Club.

Zaitchik then goes on to state his most outrageous claim that <*>. According to Zaitchik's implications, America must be not only culturaly exclusive, but amazingly lacking in confrontation and conflict, a condition that would be unique to the world and its people. What makes a good story apart from the confrontation and conflict, an element that we have been told since the beginnings of our literary education must be present in order for any good work to exist? Am I correct in assuming that there is no confrontation or conflict in "classes" such as Melville's Moby Dick, Homer's The Odyssey, or any of the many works of William Shakespeare? I think not. I instead believe that confrontation and conflict is not only omnipresent, but in definitive of human character. And I find it odd that Zaitchik has enough confidence in his knowledge to claim that ethnic American Literature "necessarily features" anything in particular. One wonders how he ever managed to find the time to edit anything, considering that fact that he has obviously read every scrap of ethnic literature ever produced in the United States. But I suppose that making personal joles at Zaitchik could be construed as being "confrontational", therefore I will limit my comment as I do not wish to associated by style to such "terrible" authors as Alice Walker, Toni Morrisson, Zacke Erdrich, Amy Tan, or Philip Roth.

In closing, I would like to clear the Zaitchik-tainted name of ethnic American literature as being inherently "a literature of violence". And in ethnic America's defense, I offer Dr Martin Luther King, Jr's "Letter from Birmingham Jail" as an example of non-violence. How could Zaitchik presume to suggest that this letter is "violent" in any sense of the word? How a letter written by a man who dedicated his entire life to the non-violent achievement of racial equality could be construed as "violent" is beyond my humble understanding. Where is the violence in Nacha's advice, in Shug's caresses, in June's gentle death? I see none. Instead, the authors of ethnic American literature realize the transformational nature of violence and confrontation. In most of the works we read this semester, the character's lives are changed through their reaction to conflict and confrontation. Zipha's life is never the same after he confronts his father, Gerry, Celie endures the cruelty of Mr.-, Tita does the same against Mama Elena, Violet must cope with Joe's infidelity, and the members of the Joy Luck Club must survive war-torn China. I suggest that these conflicts are no less violent than Beowlf ripping off the arm of Grendel, Hamlet stabbing his fiance's father, or Odysseus gouging out the eye of the cyclops. Perhaps Zaitchik should examine his own conflict-free life before making such bold statements in the future. For as I believe, ethnic American literature, including its conflict, confrontation, and violence, is applicable to aspects of human life that we can all learn from.















































<ICLE-US-PRB-0017.1>


In Walker's The Color Purple, although Mr.- physically, neurally, verbally and emotionally abuses Celie, she fight back; instead, turns to the Lord for comfort, security and peace. After Sophia's and Harpo's fight with eachother, Sophia moved out of the house in order to prevent further violence. Also, in Tang's The Joy Luck Club, despite the brutal Japanese invasion the Chinese, June's mother brings some Chinese women women together, to form The Joy Luck Club: a club in which they could unite and form a very special and peaceful bond, and bring out the joys out of unfortunate situations. According to Joseph Zaitchik: <*>. However, I truely disagree to this statement. Violence have indeed become a natural part of society; however, rather than promoting violence, these ethnic American literature provides peaceful and effective solutions to the violence that are already in existence in America. What Zaitchik fails to realize is that fact that these characters come in contact with violent situations, rather than violently fighting back, they turn peacefully to God and one another; they peaceful get away from the situation in order to prevent further violence; and they re-establis themselves, focusing on a more peaceful future.

Ethnic American literature provides peaceful and effective solutions to the violence that are already in existence in America by showing its characters' turning to God and one another in case of violence. A good demonstration of this fact is that the Joy Luck Club members gather occationally and celebrate to joys of just being alive. They tell one another jokes and stories, play games, and eat home-cooking meal. At one point, June's mother states that <*>; however, they suffer as well. They, the Joy Luck club members suffer as well as everyone else; however, rather than dweling on the pain, they gather and celebrate happiness. In a similar manner, Celie writes God, explaining her problems and praying for solutions. She takes her anger on her pen and paper, rather than violently rebelling.

Ethnic American literature also depicts its characters' leaving situations. Mr. -'s abusing Celie persists, she decides to leave in order to prevent any future violent. Also, the women of the Joy Luck Club leave their abusive spouse in order to prevent future abuses. In Wiesel's Night, after so many years of peacefully accepting the holocaust and peacefully abiding by the German rules, many Jews jumped in to the flames in order to prevent further brutality. Also, in Like Water for Chocolate, Tita leaves her mothers house and goes to stay with John in order to prevent further violence. Finally, in order to any further violence of the Mexican Revolution, Mama Elena keeps her family in her house and from going downtown.

Not only does ethnic American literature emphasize its characters' peacefully turning to God and one another in case of violence, and its characters' peacefully leaving and avoiding violent situations, but also it emphasizes its characters' re-establishing themselves, focusing on a more peaceful future. Not only do the women of the Joy Luck Club leave husbands who resort to violence, but also, they marry other men who aren't violent, in order to bring about a better and peaceful life for themselves as well as for their children. Also, as Celie leaves the abuses by Mr - she looks toward a brighter future. She establishes a sewing-career, re-unites with her children, and doesn't dwell on her brutal past with Mr-. Finally, despite his being brutally mistreated in the past, Weisel doesn't violently rebel; instead he writes a book so that the world would know about the holocaust. He's educating rather than rebelling.

Zaitchik fails to realize that violence has almost always existed in the world; therefore, these novels don't promote violence any more than it has always existed. Of course ethnic American literature, like all other literature, depicts violence in some form or another; however, clearly the reader finds that the main focus of this literature is to discover and present peaceful solutions for today's violence.






































<ICLE-US-PRB-18.1>

Candide attempts to keep the same philosophy and not change during his travels by repeatedly referring to Dr Pangloss' teachings and saying that there must be someplace everything is for the best. But Voltaire's Candide would be appropiately labeled as a buildungroman or a growing up novel. Candide grows up in this novel through the changing of his philosophy, he learns more of other peoples and cultures, and he understands that other people may have suffered as much if not more than he has.

Candide grows in this novel because of the changing of his philosophy. In the beginning he firmly believed what Dr Pangloss had taught him, everything that happens, good or bad, is always for the best. Candide changes as he begins to question his philosophy. such as when Candid asked Dr Pangloss if Dr Pangloss thought everything was for the best after having been hung, cut open, and made to be a slave. Evidence of Candide changing philosophies is seen when he arrives in Eldorado and states that maybe this is the land where everything is for the best, because that wasn't the case back in Westphalia. Candide finally does change his philosophy in the end to "*". Realizing that you must work for what you get.

Candide also grows in this novel by learning of other people and cultures. He starts out growing up sheltered in the castle of Boron thunder-ten-trunckh, until he was booted from it after his romantic meeting with Cunegonde. Candide is then captured by the Bulgars and is given a choice of punishment. He can either run through a gauntlet of men over 38 times or be blown away. Candide chose the gauntlet but after running it twice decided to be blown away. Fortunately for Candide it was realized that Candide was a metaphysician and not what he was thought to be so he was granted a pardon. Candide also travelred to the land of Eldorado where everything seemed to be perfect. All the people worked together, noon ever disagreed and money didn't matter as much to them. This was evident when Candide saw the two children playing with valuables and when they were called back to school the valuables were left lying on the ground. Candide later ventured to a quite different land when he went to France. According to his friend Martin France was contradictory and inconsistent in the government, law courts and the churches. All the people were more concerned for their own welfare than anything else.

Candide also grew in this novel by realizing that he wasn't the only who has suffered. Thinking that he had gone through a lot seeing his father killed, his mother raped and being torn away from his true love he was oblivious to the troubles of others. Candide heard the story of the old woman and how she had once been a beautiful young woman who was soon to be married. The old woman was then taken by pirates, who raped her, checked for hidden goods in peculiar places, and then she had her buttocks cut off to satisfy the pirates hunger. Candide also heard the misfortunes of Paquette. Paquette became a mistress to a doctor, who's wife always beat Paquette. Then when the doctor died she was put into jail. Only to be freed by a judge who made Paquette his mistress. And finally after leaving the judge she was force forced to become a whore. Candide then heard from Dr Pangloss and the Reverend baron how they had both been beaten and sentence row a boat by the same judge.

Labeling Voltaire's Candide a buildungroman would be appropriate because of how Candide grew through his changing of philosophies, his experiences of other cultures, and through the realization that others have problems too.






<ICLE-US-PRB-0019.1>

Picaresque is defined in The American Heritage Dictionary as being of or relating to a genre of prose Fiction detailing a traveller and his/her adventures. I believe that Voltaire's Candide can be labelled a Picaresque Novel. On leading characteristic of a Picaresque Novel occurs when there is evidence of a picaro. A picaro is a character on the outside that is portrayed as a wanderer. Candide can be viewed as the picaro in Voltaires Picaresque Novel, Candide. There are many examples of Candide's wandering, both voluntary and involuntary, in Candide. Also Candide embarks on many different adventures while searching for his love, Cunegonde.

Candide wanders all over the world in search of Candide. Sometimes he is forced to leave places and move one, still searching. Candide falls in love with a beautiful woman named Cunegonde. The two find themselves behind a screen. When Baron Thunder-ten-Tronck passes by and sees them kissing with <*> he becomes quite angry. He then proceeds to send Candide on his merry way with <*>. Candide leaves his "earthly paradise" never forgetting Cunegonde. As Candide enters the town of Waldberghofftrack-dikdorff, almost dead from extreme fatigue and hunger, he is approached by two men in blue. He relays his troubles to them and they agree to carry him to dinner. They tell Candide that <*>. Candide agrees with this philosophy and compares it to his tutor and mentor Dr Pangloss. While eating dinner Candide is asked if he truely loves the King of the Bulgars. Candide replies <*>. The two men in blue size Candide and carry him to a Bulgar regiment with irons and chains telling him he is their hero. While a member of the regiment, he is taught to raise and lower the ramrod, take aim, fire and march double time. One fine Spring day Candide takes a little stroll into the woods, believing that <*>. He hadn't gone five miles when four heros, all six feet tall, sieze him and carry him back.

Candide embarked on many adventures while searching for the love of his life, Cunegonde. For example, just outside of the port of Lisbon while on Candide's ship, Candide and his comrades encounter a ferocious storm. <*>. After reaching the shore they enconter another adventure. This time its an earthquake. The sea boiled up, smashing vessels lying at anchor. Waves of ash cover the streets, A third adventure occurs when Dr Pangloss and Candide are arrested. One for talking and the other for listening with an air of approval. The two are put in cool rooms where they are never bothered by the light of the sun. Dr Pangloss was hanged and Candide, dressed in his sanbenito + paper miter in which the flames pointed downward, was flogged.














<ICLE-US-PRB-0020.1>

Voltaire published Candide in 1759, which was during the Neo-classical movement within France. He wrote the work as a reaction to the Lisbon Earthquake and his dissatisfaction of the 1639 rules of writting by the French Academy. Although some critics belive Candide to be an exotic romance novel, I belive the work to be satirical parody about the laws of order which the French Academy regulated. Voltaire attacks, with repetition, every element of the French Academy's regulations. He attacks the use of verisilmitude and destroys the use of character management and propriety. 

Voltaire attacks the french view of truth to lifenessess, versilmitude. The French Academy believed that the work should take place in one particular setting. However, Voltaire takes Candide on many journeys which take him to almost all of the continents, and to Eldorado. Candide travels to Paraguay, Becunis Aises, Surinam, Africa, France, and the shores of England. It is obvious that Voltaire is making fun of the French Academy. Furthermore, the French believed the work should take place within twenty-four hours. However, Candide is kicked out of the castle in Westphalia when he was "a well-endowed" young man trying to woo the young Lady Cunegonde. By the end of the satiral parody Candide and Lady Cunegonde have both become old and fraile. Again, Voltaire is attacking the idea of versilmitude. Not only does Voltaire attack the truth to lifenessess of the character; he also, through repetition, attacks the propriety of the characters.

The second element of the French Academy was that their was to be character propriety and character management. The french believed that there was to be no sex on the stage. Voltaire constantly repeats sexual behaviors in Candide. In the first paragraph, Candide is banished from the castle by the Baron, Sr because he was making sexual advance towards Lady Cunegonde. Furthermore, throughout the work there are images of the young ladies running around naked with monkeys chasing them (oreillions). Also, Voltaire constantly shows individuals being raped. For example, the old woman was raped by the Avars. Secondly, the Academy said there was to be no violence on stage. Candide is full of violence. In the beginning Candide say "guts and intestines" strewn about by the war between the Bulgars and Avars. Another example of violence occurs when the old women tells of her rump being cut off because the men needed to eat. Thirdly, the French Academy believed that one should not attack the state. Voltaire attacks every country that he goes to, except for Eldorado. Candide is so appauled because of what he saw happen to the British admiral, that he did not even set foot on to English soil. By repeatedly showing the negative side of all the countries, Voltaire is obviously fed up with society. Finally, the French Academy stated that one should not attack religion on stage. Well, Voltaire repeatedly attacked the religious figures. For example, Paquette was a priest who should stay celabate, but he somehow got VD. Furthermore, while Candide was in Africa he saw the people pray to Mohamhand five times a day, and then they would go on killing each & then Candide in a satirical parody which is sardonic towards Voltaires' view on society. Furthermore, Voltaire uses repetition to make the reader laugh, but he is really mocking the French Academy.





<ICLE-US-PRB-0021.1>

Voltaire's Candide can be called an exotic romance. Eldorado is an exotic place. The children play quoits with gold and jewels. The people of Eldorado never have to ask God for anything. They just thank him for everything. The Oreillon girls and the monkeys are exotic lore. The girls become very upset when Candide kills the monkeys, their lovers. Candide could be an exotic romance, but it is something else. The French Acadamey's rules on subject matter are that there should be no sex, violence, attacks on the state, or attacks on religion. Candide is a parody of subject matter. Voltaire attacks all of these. 

Voltaire makes many attacks on religion and state. He picks on everywhere Candide goes except Eldorado. It is decided by the wise men in Lisbon to have a fine auto-da-fe. They though the sight of a few people being slowly burned would stop the earth from shaking. A negro was lying on the ground outside of Suranim. His hand was cut off because it got caught in a sugar mill, and his leg was cut off because he tried to run away. The negro said <*>. In England an Admiral was killed because he did not kill enough people. In Paris Martin was robbed and then arrested for being a thief. Voltaire also attacks religion. The good man, James the Anabaptist, drowned in a shipwreck. He was tring to save a sailor when it happened. Candide killed the Jew and the Grand Inquisitor because they were fighting over Cunegonde. These three men died and stayed dead. This only happen to a few people in Candide.The Old Woman was the daughter of a Pope, and she had had the worst life out of all of them. 

Voltaire attackes sex and violence also. At the first of the book, Cunegonde sees Dr Pangloss having sex with her mother's chambermaid. The exotic love between the Oreillon girls and the monkeys is anther example. Dr Pangloss suffer from a venereal disease, and the Baron Junior takes a bath with a young man. There are just as many example of violence in Candide also. The Bulgars rape Cunegonde and they cut her open. They bash in the Baron's head when he tries to help. The Old Woman was raped on a pirate ship, and  she saw her mother being ripped apart. One of her buttocks was cut off and eaten also. Candide was made to run through two thousand men beating him thirty-six times. He only made it twice. All his <*> was gone, and he could not go on. They were about to shoot him, and a Buglar king saved him. All these examples plus the ones in the first paragraph show why Candide is a parody of subject matter.

















<ICLE-US-PRB-0022.1>

When Voltaire wrote Candide, a literary style known as Neoclassicism was at its peak. There was a group of scholars in France, l'Academie Franais, that set guidelines for French literature. According to l'Academie Franais, all literature of the Neoclassic period must follow the rules of propriety which regulated the author should avoid certain topics, including sex, violence, church, and state issues. Another standard upheld by the Academie is the idea of verisimilitude, making literature as realistic as possible by keeping the time, setting and plot true to life. Voltaire, as a Neoclassicist, knew all these regulations and followed them in his literature.  However, when writing Candide, Voltaire defied the Academie's rules. Candide is a parody on the guidelines of Neoclassicism.  
Neoclassicists liked for literature to have good manners: they did not want to step on anyone's toes by mentioning sex, violence, church, or state issues. In Candide Voltaire did not seem to mind stepping on toes - in fact, he did not mind smashing feet! Voltaire went beyond the comfort level when he mentioned sex. He told of the two girls of Orellion who were lovers of monkeys, and of the Baron who bathed with the Musselman and was punished for his homosexual act. Sex turned into violence when Cunegonde was being raped by a Barber, and witnessed his murder while he was on top of her. The wise old woman underwent the removal of a buttock by pirates, as well as experiencing rape. After the Baron is caught bathing with the Mussalman, he receives 100 lashes for his sin. Candide stabs the Baron, a Jesuit Priest, after the Baron forbids Candides marriage to Cunegonde. Ironically, although Voltaire mentions many acts of violence, each act is treated lightly: Cunegonde and the old woman both tell their tales of being defiled like an entertaining story in their conversations about their travels; the Baron also continues his tale with style after telling of his beating; and after Candide "kills" the Baron, he leaves to search for Cunegonde with no second thought until he reencounters the Baron later in his travels. The light attitude in which these acts of sex and violence are written shows the parody form in which Voltaire writes Candide.

Voltaire chooses not to stay away from the church and state issues. He attracts the hippocracy of the Church in the old woman's father being the Pope. When Candide visits the land of Eldorado, Voltaire shows the people's perfect relationship to God: they only praise God because there is nothing they want from God. Voltaire uses this perfect relationship to God in an unrealistic situation to foil society's imperfect relationship with God in the real world. Voltaire makes fun of aristocracy in his description of the Baron, who came from 71 generations of nobility but still lacks gentilesse. Candide and his companions dine with 6 dethroned kings who represent the overimportance society places on hierarchy. In his portrayal of the utopian society of Eldorado, Voltaire toils the imperfections of our society.












<ICLE-US-PRB-0023.1>

Voltaire's Candide is a story about a young man named Candide and the rials and tribulations he faces on his life's journey. Voltaire's writing style uses sarcasm and innuendo to mock many of the institutions of his day. His lucid prose, biting satire, and clever wit make his attacks widely read. Candide can be classified into various categories. It could be considered an exotic romance for its continuing theme of boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy meets girl again. This action takes place in a number of different countries. Candide could be considered anti-war for its mockery of the ongoing fight between the Avars and Bulgars. This book could also be labeled as a satire, farce or even a picaresque novel. Candide is best described as a parody because of Voltaires attack on the rules of the French Academy, denying the use of verisimilitude subject matter on sex, and violence, and his attack on religion and politics.

Verisimilitude is truth to lifeness and the French Academy states that a story should take place at one place, at one time, and with one action. Voltaire cleverly discards of the idea of verisimilitude and writes in his own, creative way. The plot begins at the castle of Baron Thunder-ten-Tronckh. After <*> another rule of having only one action, he sails the character Candide on a trip to Lisbon. After this trip, Candide is off to Paraguay, where he has an unpleasant encounter with the Oreillons. Time passes as Candide and his servant travel to an unexpected destination, Eldorado. After leaving this utopian society, Candide sails to England after bribing an officer. He is horrified to see an admiral killed in that country and quickly sets sail for Venice, Italy. Candide is finaly able to, after many adventures, find his lady love in Constantinople, and marry her, without the consent of her brother.

Voltaire purposefully denies the next rule and makes sex and violence an intricate part of his plot. Candide is kicked out of his home for an innocent action behind a screen that takes place with a lady friend. Voltaire uses sex to mock the people of his time. He is descriptive of the rapes that take place. He shockingly writes about the sexually transmitted disease, syphillis. The docter who got this disease got it from a girl who received it from a friar, who, after a series of events, received it directly from Christopher Columbus. Voltaire shocks many of his readers with his writings about beastiality and homosexuality. The descriptions on the girl and their monkeys, and of the Reverend Father with the young Moslem, are enough to bring a flush to the reader's cheek. He mocks the aristocrats of the day and uses Cunegonde to demonstrate how a few, moral people could share her as a mistress. It is shocking to read about the marquise who asks Candide to sleep with her the first night they met. Candide himself is shocked when he discovers a former maid of his family's to be a prostitute. The violence he describes is enough to make the reader cringe. Candide has to endure several floggings and is beaten by his own army in order to  make himself better. The ongoing fight between the Avars and the Bulgars creates bloody scenes and thoughts of horror. Voltaire almost uncaringly describes the battlescene as <*>. The barbarians in his story had no regard for age on sex. They killed everyone they could find. Candide's friend was hung in an auto-da-fe, others were burned, and Candide himself was almost killed.

One of the other ways Voltaire rejects the Neoclassic principles of writing is his discussion of religeon and politics throughout the plot of the story. The French Academy did not fell that these topics should be discussed in writing. Voltaire brazenly mocks the church and the people involved with the church. The utopian society of Elderado that Candide visits points out many of the flaws within the church. In that society, each person has a personal relationship with God and are their own priests. Candide can't believe that they don't have <*>. The people of Elderado only have to thank God for his gifts because they get everything they need. There is no need for prayer. Voltaire makes a mockery of the monarchy by describing a scene of Candide at a table with six dethroned kings. Aristocrats would have been shocked at his description of improper burial of aristocrats. Don Isachen was buried in a garbage dump and dead queens were disposed of in <*>.















































<ICLE-US-PRB-0024.1>

In Shakespeare's Hamlet, most would believe that the character Hamlet is just an ordinary Shakespearean character. Hamlet endures death and a crisis within his family. He has problems with love and with deceit from people he thought were his friends. In the end, Hamlet dies for what appears to be a useless reason. This typical Shakespearean character only describes the surface of the character Hamlet. Hamlet is an Aristotelian Tragic Hero. He displays the qualities of an Aristotelian Tragic Hero through his good qualities, his flaws, and his major downfall that leads to his death.

An Aristotelian Tragic Hero must display good qualities in order for the readers to have sympathy for him when his downfall is presented. Loyalty is one of Hamlet's good qualities. Hamlet remains loyal to his father and mourns his father's death long after anyone else. Hamlet is also respectfull. He displays respect for his father by disapproving of his mother's hasty marriage to Hamlet's uncle, Claudius. Hamlet can be very clever when it is necessary. When he suspects that Claudius killed his father, Hamlet invents a clever plan to find out the truth. A play within the play of Hamlet revealed that Claudius was guilty of murder and that Hamlet is very clever indeed. Self-restraint is another good quality that Hamlet possesses. At one time, Hamlet has the perfect opportunity to murder Claudius which would make Hamlet's life much nicer. The good quality of self-restraint saves Hamlet from murder this time.

Although Hamlet displays a few good qualities, his flaws are much more dominant. He often acts on his impulses without thinking of the consequences. When Polonius is hiding behind the curtains, Hamlet believes that Claudius is there and without thinking to look, Hamlet kills Polonius instead. Hamlet illustrates his impatience while he is waiting for his father's ghost to appear. Hamlet can hardly be patient long enough without asking a lot of questions about the arrival of the ghost. Hamlet is unloyal to Ophelia, the woman he is supposed to love. Hamlet tells her that he does not love her and that she belongs in a nunnery. Hamlet also displays disrespect to his mother. He criticizes her and looks down upon her because of her quick marriage after the death of his father. Hamlet has suicidal thoughts many times throughout the play. He even gives a soliloquy in which he expresses his desire to kill himself and take the easy way out. Another flaw of Hamlet's is that he is a murderer. Hamlet kills many people throughout the play, such as Polonius and Claudius.

Hamlet has many flaws, but his lack of respect for others and too much pride in himself lead Hamlet to his downfall. Hamlet seems to exhibit a great amount of pride in himself when he feels that he has the right to judge his mother's marriage and when he tells Ophelia that she belongs in a nunnery. He illustrates pride in himself when he does not respect the new king, Claudius. Hamlet's pride in himself and lack of respect for Claudius leads to his death. Hamlet refuses to let his better judgement help him to make the right decisions. Instead, he chooses to fight Claudius, and Hamlet is killed. Hamlet displays all the qualities of an Aristotelian tragic hero, such as his good qualities, his flaws, and his downfall by his flaws.







<ICLE-US-PRB-0025.1>

The Neoclassic Age emerged in France during the reign of Louis XIV. In 1636, the French Academy established a set of rules it saw as an appropriate guideline to literature. These rules include the use of verisimilitude, propriety on stage and proper character management. Voltaire's Candide can be appropriately labeled as a parody on the neoclassic rules of propriety. Through repeated use of sex and violence, Voltaire ridicules the French Academy's teachings.

Voltaire's attack on sex in Candide includes homosexuality, consent, and rape. Subtle hints to the reader reveal cunegonde's brother's homosexuality. He "never tired of embracing Candide" and was overjoyed to be reunited with Candide. The Jesuit also admits to taking a bath with another young man, not realizing it was a <*>.  As Candide grows, he encounters several instances of consent. While Candide is living at the Baron's castle as a youth, Cunegonde sees Pangloss giving the chambermaid lessons in "experimental physics", which she then tries to teach Candide behind a screen. In later travels, Candide sees two young ladies running "nimbly" while two monkeys followed closely <*>. Candide discovers that these monkeys are the young ladies' lovers. While Candide is on his way, once again, to find Cunegonde, the lady of the house at Faubourg Saint Honor willingly "gives herself to him" on the first night that they met. When Candide is first reunited with Pangloss, and is told that Cunegonde is dead, Pangloss reveals that Cunegonde was "as much as a person can be". And when the old woman joins the group of travelers, she tells them that her virginity, the flower reserved for a certain prince, was "ravished" from her by a soldier.

Voltaire attacks the "violence rule" of propriety with more than rape scenes. The old woman says she saw her mother all of the Italian women cut to pieces, and she was left dying on a heap of corpses. The old woman later experiences violence as she and the other women with her have one buttock cut off to be eaten by the men as the men's only chance of survival. Pangloss tells Candide that Cunegonde was not only raped, but also disembowled by the Bulgar soldiers. Cunegonde's father had his head smashed and her mother was "hacked to pieces" by the soldiers who invaded the castle. Candide is happy to see Cunegonde's brother again, but when the Jesuit says Candide may not marry Cunegonde, Candide <*> in the Jesuit's belly. Pangloss and Candide survive being hanged and flogged, respectively, but ironically continue to believe that all events are interconnected to "create the best of all worlds". The scenes of sex and violence, and Candide's philosophy at the end of the novel, show that Voltaire is ridiculing the French Academy's rules of propriety.







<ICLE-US-PRB-0026.1>
 

According to Lunde, 90% of homicide victims and their murderers were on a first name basis. Thus, they knew one another. The statistics in South Carolina support Lunde's thesis.The majority of the murders in SC are committed by friends, relatives, neighbors, or someone the victim knew. The factors implicated in these tragedies are frustration and aggression. Often times, a person will get mad at another person. They tend to get frustrated and then wish to relay this frustration through aggression. Aggression can lead to death if a gun is lying around. For example, a guy may get mad at his brother and then pick up a gun in a threatening-type way. He may have no intention of using it. But, as Berkowitz states the <*>. In his aggressive rage, he may kill his brother even though this was not his intention. Another factor in this high number of tragedies is the availability of guns in homes and on the streets. This can lead to the death of children by other children who did not realize what a gun could do. The availability of the gun can also turn a rather trivial fight into a murder.



Racial prejudice is still around today as it was 30 years ago, but it has taken on different forms. One type is aversive racism. This is where a person who does not like a certain minority avoids being around that minority so he does not have to allow his prejudices to come forth. Another fairly new type of prejudice is symbolic racism. In this, a person equates a certain group to a certain social problem. For example, many people feel that all of the welfare recipients are black. Therefore, they view blacks as lazy and unwilling to work. However, it is a fact that most of the recipients of welfare are white. 

Another prejudice has taken on new forms, it has also declined in the past thirty years. Various races are becoming more and more acceptable. However, racial prejudice is seen today in medical research. Certain studies are carried out on people of one race. Therefore, the research results may not be correct for all people. It may be that the classification of people for studies needs to change. 

Adecline of racism has been seen in educational and occupational areas. The affirmative action laws have increased the appearance of minorities in the workplace. However, new classifications may need to take place in this area because it is seen that people are changing their race just to get a job even though they may not add to the ethnic diversity. Desegregation in schools also led to a decrease in racial prejudice, but it did note create a complete equal status condition. Minorities in the schools showed a decrease in self-esteem. Tody, this problem can be corrected by letting students work in cooperative groups using the jigsaw method. Through these groups, the children gain interdependence and come to see who the other children really are.


The client should first meet this person. Then, he should set it up so he is overheard saying negative things about her. He should continue to let her overhear him talking at various times about her. As he continues to talk about her, he should gradually get more positive in his characterization of this person. As the person overhears the client each time, she will begin to like him more and more. This is based on Aronson's Gain-Loss theory. The person will feel like she has gained something by the end of all the times she hears the client talking about her. It is proven that people like a gain and don't like a loss. Therefore, this gain will satisfy the person and will produce a new friend for the client.

For the client to get this person to like him, he should ask the person to do him a favor. This is related to the "foot-in-the-door" technique. Once this person has done a favor for the client, she will feel she needs to reduce her dissonance. In doing so, she will say she did the favor for the client because she likes him. This would allow her to justify her actions internally as well as externally.



Aronson feels that sensitivity is a necessary component in a relationship. He feels that it is not only necessary for a person to be open with another but that it is also necessary for that person to listen to the other person's feelings. Aronson feels that T-groups or sensitivity groups are important because they create an environment in which a person can open up and be vulnerable without being threatened. He says that the society we live in today creates an environment in which people don't want to be vulnerable so they don't open up and express their feelings. If they do, they feel that the competition around them will put them at a loss. Aronson feels that people need to be more sensitive to the feelings of others. He feels we should communicate by expressing our feelings rather than pointing fingers at the person who we think caused these feelings to be produced. As we do so, communication improves and the relationship becomes closer and closer.



Pettigrew studied the role of conformity in prejudice. He learned that the norms of a certain area create prejudice in people who inhabit that area. For example, Southerners are more prejudice toward blacks than northerners. This is due to the conformity of prejudice in the South. It was shown that white coal m iners in W. Virginia would talk and carry on with black coal miners underground. However, when they came above ground, they no longer talked to one another. The reason for this is that the society (above ground) had norms which discouraged this. 

It has also been shown that people who have certain prejudices in one area change their prejudices when they move to a new area. Their prejudices then mimic those found predominantly in that area. Thus, conformity is a major factor in creating the prejudices that engulf us.




















<ICLE-US-PRB-0027.1>

According the Lunde, 35% of homicide victims are killed by someone they know. Statistics from 56 are greater than Lundes' thesis. Frustration is the main factor most implicated in these tragedies. Most cases are those of the "trigger puling the finger".



Today, racial prejudice still exists, but less action has taken place than 30 years ago. Thirty years ago, minorities couldn't ride a bus, vote, or go to school with white people. Desegragation reduced some prejudice, but it still exists. The difference is, today social prejudice is not openly expressed as it was 30 years ago.



I would tell the client to be extremely nice to that person and do favors for that person. That person would then feel obligated to do nice things back and return favors. This is based on eauity theory. It would be better for the client to do nice things for the person that it would be to ask a favor of the person.



Someone who live in the north who comes to live in the south may not be prejudice toward Blacks at first. After living in the south for a while, they may adopt southern attitudes toward Blacks and feel prejudice toward them. This is conformity. The same goes for Southerners who move north. They come to feel prejudice toward Jews.

I know someone who has lived all over the world. He is prejudice toward Jews, Blacks, and Mexicans. He adopted white attitudes against minorities in the different regions he has lived in.






























<ICLE-US-PRB-0028.1>


According to Lunde, approximately 90% of homicide victims knew or were acquanted with their killer. The statistics discussed in class from the SC report do in fact support Lunde's theory. Of all the homicides in SC, the majority of the victims did know the murderer, they were either a family member, friend, or acauaintice. The factors involved in this occurrence is mostly the fact that frustration (especially denial of a goal soon to be obtained) leads to aggression. We are more likely to be involved in arguments which involve frustration with people we know and come in contact with. Due to this, aggression is more apt to occur and be expressed towards these people we know. The statement that often the trigger pulls the finger points to the idea that once individuals are in these frustrating situations, their aggression tends to escalate uncontrolabley and without preconceived intention, they end up murdering someone.



Racial prejudice today is somewhat less tolerated in our society compared to 30 years ago. Due to the strong effects of conformity, prejudice has therefore become more "under the table". People who are prejudice may not want to explicitly express their views in front of groups who may disagree, therefore their prejudice may not actually end up in discrimination against minorities. In other cases, these individucals will use symbolic prejudice to express their racism more acceptedly. In symbolic prejudice someone will feel negative against something for reasons they don't express as the reasons. For example a racist white male may be against welfare supposedly because the recipients are lazy etc., his true feeling is that most welfare recepients are black and lazy, not just lazy. I think that there is much more of this type of racism prelavent today, as well as the attitude of "they" are o.k. as long as they aren't around me because I'm not comfortable around them. 

The forces of government and society have tried overall to make prejudice decrease through desegregation and equal rights. But even though on the surface racism appears to be much less prominent, I think unluckily this is naive. Prejudice has decreased overall somewhat, but many times it's very common but not as noticeable. Because the klansmen isn't as common people tend to feel prejudice isn't a main concern nay more. I think that looking at the Rodney King situation as well as other occurences (as Aronson pointed out) shows that it's still around and needs to continually be dealt with.



If someone would like to become friends with a person, they should to a certain extent be friendly, cooperative, agreeable, and positive towards them. These must not be overdone or it will be considered fake or carrying alterior motives. People do tend to like you if they know you like them, so the client should let the person know they like them. People have been found to like others even more if they know the person likes them even though some of their opinions differ. This tactic could be used to make the other person feel you like them for more than just their opinions but for the real person. Other research has shown (Aronson's experiment) that if someone initially has negative evaluations of you and then changes gradualy to positive evaluations you like them more than if they always had positive things to say (gain-loss-theory). Therefore at initial contacts you should let the person know (maybe through others) that you don"t see them as all that great, then gradualy become more positive.

If the client can try to become more physicaly attractive or if they are attractive, then iut will be easier to get the other person to become their friend. The ability for one's physical appearance to effect how others judge you initially and therefore shape their interactions with you has been proven in research on the self-fulfilling prophecy. It would be better for the client to ask this person to do them a favor instead of doing nice things for them. This is because people will justify to themselves why they complied with the request. The justification is that the other person (our client) is worthwhile and good therefore cognitive dissonance will lead to the person becoming friends with the client.



The term sensitivity as it is discussed by Aronson, refers to not only being sensitive to what other people are feeling (empathy) but also becoming more sensitive to what you are actually feeling. Many communication difficulties stem from problems within the indivicuals of not realizing or facing their own feelings. Instead of being sensitive to on's own self (such as I am jealous), people tend to project anger and blame the other individual (you were acting so sluty). This type of unsensitive approach to conflicts is both negative for both individuals. You end up hurting someone elses feelings because you aren't sensitive to you own.














































<ICLE-US-PRB-0029.1>


According to Lunde, some incredible number, 90%, of homicides include members who knew each other previously. The reason for this is that people who are friends end up fighting and often times end up wanting to hurt one another. They do not have the intent to kill at all they only want to cause pain, not death. This is hard though when guns are involved. It is much too easy to get carried away in aggresive feelings and end up killing someone. 

Peome become frustrated with people they love more often than they become frustrated with others. These feelings often lead to aggression, which too often leads to killings over something that started out as a simple frustration. 

In South Carolina, these statistics are supported. There are more homicides around holidays (ie. Christmas, the 4th of July, etc.) This is b/c these are the times when families are together. There is the most opportunity for frustration and therefore aggression.



Racial Prejudice was accepted 30 years ago. At least it was more accepted then it is today. In a time when it was more accepted there was no reason to hide it, make excuses for it, or try to justify it. Today, people have a hardert time just being openly prejudice. People must now justify their actions not only to themselves but to others as well. For example, in one study while students were just as likely to help black & white students who had demonstrated effort. However, if the black student had not then it was easy to justify not helping him by saying that he was lazy and didnt care anyway. If the white student had not demonstrated effort the student would still help him and assume that something else of equal importance got in the way of preparing.

People need to find ways to justify their prejudice attitudes. For example, soon after the students at Kent state were shot there were many rumors about them being dirty, oversexed & lazy & the deserved to be killed. This was done to make the people become desentivezed to what they were doing. Justify it by saying they deserved it.

Another reason that prejudice is not as accepted now as it once was is education and desegration. Perhaps, before people didn't know the sterotype was wrong they believed it. Now, people know that sterotypes don't hold up. They are in contact with people everyday who prove to them that not only are these sterotypes wrong but they are also completely unjustified. 

Today, Prejudice must be hidden it just isn't accepted in our society. We may practic discrimination at first and try to hold onto our sterotypes but we quickly learn that these people are individuals w/ feelings and minds too. This is the point at which prejudic & discrimination become viewed as unacceptable.

For example, In a phsyciatric hospital Black patients upon entering were treated more harshly then whites but once they had been there for a while everyone was treated the same.



Be friendly to the person. Be yourself. Be open & honest. Don't be overly nice, just friendly. Studies show that people have a greater respect for people that are truthful and friendly w/ them then w/ people who are excessively nice. People like honesty. People do not like pushovers. In the end the person will be more attracted to a person who has told them how it was with straight talk. Rather than made the situation seem different then it really was.


Spend time w/ this person and find out what the person is initerested in. What do you have in common? It is important to let down the protective walls we have around our egos and expose our real selfs. This involves risking getting hurt but is also may lead to devolping an intimate relationship. 

Intimacy is one of the most important factors in a relationship. This is a bond developed between two people. This can often time lead to commitment. Which also is an important part of a relationship. These included w/ Passion make up three main components of a relationship that balanced correctly in the end may end up being very successful.



It is often true that people do not even hold these real prejudice attitudes they just conform to society's ways. For example, people may not believe that there should be segregated schools but b/c of the structure of the school system they do not see why there should not be.

Another problem is that there is this collective prejudice that people don't even realize is there b/c they don't even consider the possibility of another way. For example, women truck drivers, men who want to sew for a living. These things just aren't thought of and therefore there is an incontious prejudice.

One other problem is that often times our beliefs create reality. We allow data to show what we want it to not on purpose but b/ it supports our view we may not think that there is a reason to question it at all.

We conform to society and society's ways without realizing it this causes us to be a part of some prejudice acts.
































<ICLE-US-PRB-0030.1>


The percentage of people who are killed by people they know or are related to is up around 90%. The statistics from SC do support the thesis, but not at the 90%, it is closer to about 75-80%. It is still a fact that if we kill someone it will most likely by someone we know simply because these are the people we are in contact with every day. In many cases the finger is not pulling the trigger, rather the trigger pulls the finger. Domestic disputes often en in tragedy, but only because one person doesn't think the other will actually shoot them, likewise the person with the gun really doesn't want to kill the other, only even the scales. But to often revenge or payback outweighs the original action ten-fold. A good example would be two brothers in an argument, one insults the other and in turn a gun is introduced. Obviously the 1st brother doesn't expect to be shot so he continues to harass the other. The boy with the gun only wants him to stop, not to die but all of a sudden the trigger has pulled the finger. If the gun had not been present, it may have ended in a fistfight, or simply in one of the brothers being upset.



Racial prejudice still exists today, the only real difference is that it is not as open as it was in the sixties. It is hard for me, a white middle class male, to say what prejudice is like for minorities today as opposed to 30 years ago. I know that there has been a lot of progress in terms of segregation and discrimination, but it really couldn't have gotten much worse that it had been. Maybe by the turn of the decade we will all be Americans, or just people and not labeled by others as white or black or whatever. This would be ideal, but as long as people are different there will be those who judge solely on skin color, hair length, gender, and who knows maybe even shoe size.

Prejudice still exists, but thankfully it is known as ignorance to many people, whereas 30 years ago it was thought to be "just the way it is". No longer is "separate but equal" accepted and that in itself is a huge step for reducing prejudice.



I would advise our client to be themselves, while at the same time be agreeable, friendly, and see if they can find out if they have a common interest with the person. I may advise him to read "How to win friends and Influence people", but to take it with a grain of salt and not to overdue the "lavish praise". Although our client may be inclined to do nice things for the lady, it would be better for him in the long run to try to get her to do him a small favor. This would increase the likelyhood of her doing him a larger favor later, like a date. If he does lots of nice things for her, she would appreciate it at first, but it would not be beneficial in the long run, especially when just trying to get to know her.

I would also use some of my own themes for helping him get to know her. I would say that I think everyone wants to smile, and tha if he smiles a lot, it sill relax her and encourage her to smile. He shouldn't be phony or overly obnoxious about trying to ease the tension. He should be relaxed, but not to confident.









<ICLE-US-PRB-0031.1>


According to Lunde, 85% of homicide victims are killed by someone they know. Yes, statistics from SC do support this thesis. These tragedies illustrate the power of frustration on the human body. People who murder others probably didn't go into the situation wanting to murder the other. The person's frustration led to anger and aggression that just got out of control. Even small things such as getting in the way of someone's goal can lead to the frustration which leads to aggressive act of murder. These tragedies also illustrate the flippancy with which we Americans view murder and other forms of violence. Through exposure, perhaps we have been desensitized to violence. The media also plays a part in this flippancy. When a character is shot, he often appears in the next scene. Kids, in particular, aren't forming realistic schemas regarding violence. The media also desensitizes men to sex crimes leading to more rapes. We as potential parents must instill in our children - the future presidents, doctors, teachers, & even murders - a true picture of aggression & the need to control it.



Racial prejudice is not as pronounced as it was 30 years ago. It is actually appearing to decline. This is evidenced in, for example, cartoons and t.v. shows - racial minorities are not publicly stereotyped. Attitudes regarding desegregation have also changed - perhaps as a result of the psychology of inevitably & cognitive dissonance. Perhaps through the media & other sources some misconceptions are being cleared up and more realistic information is being provided to the public.



I would suggest that he either focus on the similarities of ideas & opinions with that person's or genuinely consider presenting his opinions & then converting to the others' opinions. He should also appear competent, but not perfect (the pratfall effect). He could at first pretend to think negatively of her & then gradually evaluate her more positively (gain-loss theory). The client should appear as attractive as he can w/o using his attractiveness to manipulate her. The client can hope (particularly if he is of avg or lower attractiveness) that she has a moderately low self-esteem & will thus be less selective in her choices for dates or friends. The client should also disclose personal info. to the client to induce her to like him. This advice can be backed up w/ research. It would be better for the client to ask a favor of the person - b/c from this cognitive dissonance, the other would view the client as being generally more favorable.




In discussing sensitivity, the author emphasizes the importance of being sensitive to one's own feelings, thoughts, & the effects of his own behaviour on others. Only when this is accomplished can he become sensitive to others' feelings. Sensitivity is a necessary component of effective communication. Confrontation can make one more sensitive to his own behavior and how others interpret it. One should be sensitive to the others' interpretation of his behavior so that he will know better how to act .







<ICLE-US-PRB-0032.1>


According to Lunde 80% of homicide victims are killed by someone they know. The statistics do support Lunde b/c about 90% of murders in S.C. are committed by an aquantiance. Usually these murders occur due to a disagreement between the victim & the murderer. For example, two best friends had gone to a bar & one borrowed $10 from the other friend. The next night when they went to the bar again the friend who had lent the money asked for it to be returned. When the borrower didn't have it they got into a fight & the friend who borrowed the $10 was dead. A similar incident occured between 2 brother. One asked his dad to borrow the car for a date & the other brother asked his mom to borrow the car. When it was time for the brother to go on the date, he found his brother getting into the car. They got into an argument & the brother w/ the date got a gun out of the glove compartment & shot his brother dead.



Today racial prejudice is more hidden than it was 30 yrs ago. For instance, Dr Frey used an example on the test & in class that said he knew of people in Clinton who were all for minority rights, but they just didn't want them (blacks or other minorities) living next to them. This is a subtle form of racism that, when looked into with questioning, is just a potent & descriminating as outward prejudice.



I would advise the client to be open and honest, but to do so subtly. They should not be overly friendly or agreeable because studies Aronson cited showed that individuals were more likely to like those who disgreed occasionally with them as opposed to someone who agreed with them constantly. It would be better for the client to ask a favor & then later do nice things for the person they were attracted to.



Aronson uses sensitivity when he talks of T groups and confronting individuals on certain issues. He states that communication is the best way to handle problems with people but because not everyone likes confrontation he says that you need to be sensitive to these individuals. To do so instead of blaming them in a discussion use the word feel in stating you position which lessens the harshness of confrontation by exposing something about yourself and not directly blaming them. 

Aronson also states that by saying what you feel you can become more sensitive to your own feelings which will make you more sensitive towards others.

















<ICLE-US-PRB-0033.1>


Lunde found that approx. 70% homicides were inflicted on victims which the perpetrater knew. This is due to the fact that human beings tend to become frustrated with those whom they like and love. When we encounter a stranger, we generally do not care enough about him to allow frustration to develop. However, since frustration leads to aggression, and we normally become frustrated with those whom we like and love, human beings have a higher tendency for inflicting aggressive behavior on our loved ones.



Fifty years ago, when segregation was enacted, this led to stereotyping and prejudice. Because <*> were separated, this caused tremendous outgroup bias, leading to deep-rooted beliefs that black southern americans are inferior. Desegregation, shortly thereafter, raised prejudiced attitudes because of competition, and the fundamental attribution theory. <*> in classroom situations, for example, the white and black students lived in different social status, causing black students to feel intimidated about answering questions and speaking in class. The timidness of blacks in the classroom, caused other students to see these blacks as "stupid", thus, lowering the self esteem of the black student because of self-fulfilled prophecy. Low self-esteem only led to more shyness, and for the white students to further believe the stereotype: the black student is "stupid", because he does not speak in class.

Also, economic competition leads to prejudice, because the white men believed they were superior, even after desegregation. The problem lay with unequal status situation, where the whites could not relate to the blacks social situation. Racial prejudice has developed a trend for thirty years, as people continue to conform to prejudice, beliefs and attitudes. However, in public housing situations, for example, where there is an equal status situation, prejudice is greatly reduced. Hopefully programs can be further implemented to develop further equal-status situations, in order to reduce prejudice in the South.



First, I would have the client identify the reason he/she initially felt intrigued by this person. Was it because they shared similarities, or because the person was physically attractive and/or competent? This first analysis may lead to the next step of identification: romantic love, or compassionate liking? If one is physically attracted to the person, it could more easily lead to romantic love, where Sternber used label passion and intimacy as two key elements that would be developed. If compassionate liking is the status of the relationship, because perhaps the people share similarities and have a mutual respect for each other's competence, a decision to self-disclose, or become vulnerable to each other may lead to intimacy. This intimacy may lead to a further commitment to a long-lasting enduring friendship.

Dependency is important in a friendship, because we like to be there for each other in times of need. It is important to remember that when the 1st client asks a favor of the other, reciprocity will eventually come -but true equitable friendship does not come with "strings attached". The two friends should equally do favors for one another, but without expecting in return, and not "keeping score".



Conformity can be derived from a model, causing identification. In the South, specifically, the older generation of adults witnessed extensive change in the social status of black people. Although laws may have changed, deep-rooted prejudiced attitudes remain in these adults. Those attitudes lead to stereotypes and subtle prejudice. A parent may make a very subtle comment which reflects his prejudice beleifs; and overheard by the child, he may conform to this belief because he identifies with the parent.

Also, unconscious ideology occurs, where there exists an underlying attitude, or prejudice, which may not even be consciously noticed. It is hard for people to realize the effects their environment has on them; and it may not be until they move away, that they recognize this unconscious ideology.
 



































 



















 

